whether the Secretary may impose nonwillful penalties on a per-report or per-account basis. Pp. –. (c) Best read, the BSA treats the failure to fle a legally compliant report as one violation carrying a maximum penalty of $,. Pp. –. F. th , reversed and remanded. Gorsuch, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court except as to Part II–C. Jackson, J., joined that opinion in full, and Roberts, C. J., and Alito and Kavanaugh, JJ., joined except for Part II–C. Barrett, J., fled a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined, post, p. . Daniel L. Geyser argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs were Angela M. Oliver, Rachael E. Ruben- stein, and Farley P. Katz. Matthew Guarnieri argued the cause for the United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Pre- logar, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Hubbert, Deputy Solicitor General Gannon, Francesca Ugolini, Arthur T. Catterall, and Paul A. Allulis.* Page Proof Pending Publication Justice Gorsuch announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II–A, II–B, and III, and an opinion with respect to Part II–C, in which Justice Jackson joins. The Bank Secrecy Act and its implementing regulations require certain individuals to fle annual reports with the *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the American College of Tax Counsel by Caroline D. Ciraolo, Megan L. Brackney, and Caroline Rule; for the Center for Taxpayer Rights by Guinevere Moore, Zhanna A. Ziering, Ajay Gupta, and Aaron M. Esman; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America by Joseph R. Palmore and Edward L. Froelich; and for the National Federation of Independent Busi- ness Small Business Legal Center et al. by Arthur G. Sapper, Elizabeth Mil- ito, Ellen Steen, Travis Cushman, Thomas Ward, and Angelo I. Amador. Stephen M. Kohn and Rachel G. Talay fled a brief of amicus curiae urging affrmance for the National Whistleblower Center. David E. Sloan fled a brief of amicus curiae for the American College of Trust and Estate Counsel. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court federal government about their foreign bank accounts. The statute imposes a maximum $, penalty for nonwillful violations of the law. But recently a question has arisen. Does someone who fails to fle a timely or accurate annual report commit a single violation subject to a single $, penalty? Or does that person commit separate violations and incur separate $, penalties for each account not properly recorded within a single report? The answer makes a difference, especially for immigrants who hold accounts abroad and Americans who make their lives outside the country. On one view, penalties accrue on a per-report basis. So, for example, a single late-fled report disclosing the existence of accounts may yield a maximum fne of $,. On another view, penalties multiply on a per-account basis, so the same report can invite a fne of $, even if the individual's foreign holdings or total net worth do not approach that amount. Because the Ninth Cir- cuit read the law one way and the Fifth Circuit the other, we agreed to take this case. Page Proof Pending Publication I The Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) does not make it illegal to hold foreign accounts. Nor does the BSA tax those ac- counts. To the contrary, the federal government has ac- knowledged that “U. S. persons maintain overseas fnancial accounts for a variety of legitimate reasons including con- venience and access.” IRS Pub. , Report of Foreign Bank & Financial Accounts (FBAR) Reference Guide, p. (Rev. –). As relevant here, the BSA simply requires those who possess foreign accounts with an aggregate bal- ance of more than $, to fle an annual report on a form known as an “FBAR”—the Report of Foreign Bank and Fi- nancial Accounts. U. S. C. § ; CFR § . (). These reports are designed to help the government “trace funds” that may be used for “illicit purposes” and identify “unreported income” that may be subject to taxation BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court separately under the terms of the Internal Revenue Code. FBAR Reference Guide, at . The facts of the Ninth and Fifth Circuit cases help illumi- nate the particular question about the BSA now before us. The frst dispute involved Jane Boyd, an American citizen who held relevant accounts in the United Kingdom. The amounts in those accounts increased signifcantly after her father died in and she deposited her inheritance. United States v. Boyd, F. d , (CA ). Be- cause the aggregate amount in Ms. Boyd's accounts exceeded $, in , she should have fled an FBAR in . Ne- glecting to do so, she corrected the error in , submitting a complete and accurate report at that time. Ibid. The government acknowledged that Ms. Boyd's violation of the law was “non-willful.” Still, the government said, it had the right to impose a $, penalty—$, for each of her late-reported accounts. Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication Ms. Boyd challenged the penalty in court where she ar- gued that her failure to fle a single timely FBAR subjected her to a single maximum penalty of $,. The district court rejected that argument and sided with the govern- ment. United States v. Boyd, AFTR d – (CD Cal. ). But in time the Ninth Circuit vindicated Ms. Boyd's view, holding that the BSA authorizes “only one non- willful penalty when an untimely, but accurate, FBAR is fled, no matter the number of accounts.” F. d, at . More recently, the same question arose in the Fifth Circuit in a case involving Alexandru Bittner. Born and raised in Romania, Mr. Bittner immigrated to the United States at a young age in . He worked frst as a dishwasher and later as a plumber and along the way became a naturalized citizen. After the fall of communism, Mr. Bittner returned to Romania in where he launched a successful business career. Like many dual citizens, he did not appreciate that U. S. law required him to keep the government apprised of Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court his overseas fnancial accounts even while he lived abroad. F. th , – (CA ). Shortly after returning to the United States in , Mr. Bittner learned of his re- porting obligations and engaged an accountant to help him prepare the required reports—covering fve years, from through . Id., at . But the story did not end there. The government identi- fed a problem in the late-fled reports. While those reports provided details about Mr. Bittner's largest account, they ne- glected to address or more other accounts over which he had signatory authority or in which he had a qualifying in- terest. Ibid. After the government informed him of this defciency, Mr. Bittner hired a new accountant who helped him fle corrected FBARs for each year in question. Ibid. Under governing regulations, flers with signatory authority over or a qualifying interest in fewer than accounts must provide details about each account, but individuals with or more accounts need only check a box and disclose the total number of accounts. CFR § .(g). Instead of em- ploying that expediency, however, Mr. Bittner and his new accountant volunteered details for each and every one of his accounts— accounts in , in , in and , and in . F. th, at –. Page Proof Pending Publication The question then turned to what penalty Mr. Bittner should pay. The government did not contest the accuracy of Mr. Bittner's new flings. Nor did the government sug- gest that his previous errors were willful. But because the government took the view that nonwillful penalties apply to each account not accurately or timely reported, and because Mr. Bittner's late-fled reports for – collectively in- volved accounts, the government thought a fne of $. million was in order. Id., at –. Like Ms. Boyd before him, Mr. Bittner challenged his pen- alty in court, arguing that the BSA authorizes a maximum penalty for nonwillful violations of $, per report, not BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court $, per account. As he put it, an individual's failure to fle fve reports in a timely manner might invite a penalty of $,, but it cannot support a penalty running into the millions. The district court agreed with Mr. Bittner's read- ing of the law, F. Supp. d , – (ED Tex. ), but the Fifth Circuit upheld the government's assessment, F. th, at . II With those facts in mind, the question before us boils down to this: Does the BSA's $, penalty for nonwillful violations accrue on a per-report or a per-account basis? Mr. Bittner urges us to agree with the Ninth Circuit and hold that the law authorizes a single $, fne for each untimely or inaccurate report. The government defends the judgment of the Fifth Circuit and asks us to hold that a new $, penalty attaches to each account not timely or accu- rately disclosed within a report. Page Proof Pending Publication A To resolve who has the better reading of the law, we begin with the terms of the most immediately relevant statutory provisions, U. S. C. § and § . The frst delineates an individual's legal duties under the BSA, the second out- lines the penalties that follow for failing to discharge those duties. Section provides that the Secretary of the Treasury “shall” require certain persons to “keep records, fle reports, or keep records and fle reports” when they “mak[e] a trans- action or maintai[n] a relation” with a “foreign fnancial agency.” § (a). When it comes to the duty to fle re- ports, the relevant duty in our case, the statute says that reports “shall contain” information about “the identity and address of participants in a transaction or relationship,” “the legal capacity in which a participant is acting,” and “the iden- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tity of real parties in interest,” along with a “description of the transaction.” §§ (a)()–(). The law also directs the Secretary to prescribe “the way and . . . the extent” to which reports must be fled. § (a). Immediately, one thing becomes clear. Section does not speak of accounts or their number. The word “account” does not even appear. Instead, the relevant legal duty is the duty to fle reports. Of course, those reports must include various kinds of information about an individual's foreign “transaction[s] or relationship[s].” But whether a report is fled late, whether a timely report contains one mistake about the “address of [the] participants in a transaction,” or whether a report includes multiple willful errors in its “de- scription of . . . transaction[s],” the duty to supply a com- pliant report is violated. Put another way, the statutory obligation is binary. Either one fles a report “in the way and to the extent the Secretary prescribes,” or one does not. Multiple willful errors about specifc accounts in a single re- port may confrm a violation of § , but even a single nonwillful mistake is enough to pose a problem. One way or another, § is violated. The only distinction the law draws between these cases concerns the appropriate penalty. Page Proof Pending Publication That's where § comes in. As a baseline, § (a)() authorizes the Secretary to impose a civil penalty of up to $, for “any violation” of § . U. S. C. §§ (a) ()(A) and (B)(i). Some call this the “nonwillful” penalty provision. And here again, one thing is immediately appar- ent: The law still does not speak of accounts or their number. Instead, the statute pegs the quantity of nonwillful penalties to the quantity of “violation[s].” And as we have seen, § provides that a violation occurs when an individual fails to fle a report consistent with the statute's commands. So multiple defcient reports may yield multiple $, pen- alties, and even a seemingly simple defciency in a single re- BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court port may expose an individual to a $, penalty. But in all cases, penalties for nonwillful violations accrue on a per- report, not a per-account, basis. To be sure, the statute's penalty provisions do not stop there. Section goes on to say that if an individual “willfully” violates § , he may face a maximum penalty of $,. § (a)()(C)(i)(I). The statute then adds an even more specifc rule for a subclass of willful violations— those that involve “a failure to report the existence of an account or any identifying information required to be pro- vided with respect to an account.” § (a)()(D)(ii). In cases like that, the law authorizes the Secretary to impose a maximum penalty of either $, or % of “the balance in the account at the time of the violation”—whichever is greater. §§ (a)()(C) and (D)(ii). So here, at last, the law does tailor penalties to accounts. But the statute does so only for a certain category of cases that involve willful violations, not for cases like ours that involve only nonwill- ful violations. Page Proof Pending Publication No surprise, the government seeks to turn this feature of the law to its advantage. Because Congress explicitly au- thorized per-account penalties for some willful violations, the government asks us to infer that Congress meant to do so for analogous nonwillful violations as well. Brief for United States –. But, in truth, this line of reasoning cuts against the government. When Congress includes particu- lar language in one section of a statute but omits it from a neighbor, we normally understand that difference in lan- guage to convey a difference in meaning (expressio unius est exclusio alterius). The government's interpretation defes this traditional rule of statutory construction. See, e. g., De- partment of Homeland Security v. MacLean, U. S. , (); Gallardo v. Marstiller, U. S. –––, –––, ––– (). What, if any, mens rea the government must prove to impose a “non- willful” penalty is not before us. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court The government's problem repeats itself too. Section (a)()(B)(ii) contains a “[r]easonable cause exception.” That exception allows an individual to escape a penalty (say for fling late) only if his violation was nonwillful, “due to reasonable cause,” and the report he eventually fles accu- rately refects each and every account. All of which sup- plies further evidence that, when Congress wished to tie sanctions to account-level information, it knew exactly how to do so. Congress said that penalties for certain willful vio- lations may be measured on a per-account basis. Congress said that a person may invoke the reasonable cause exception only on a showing of per-account accuracy. But the one thing Congress did not say is that the government may im- pose nonwillful penalties on a per-account basis. Conspicu- ously, the one place in the statute where the government needs per-account language to appear is the one place it does not. In the end, the government's per-account theory faces not just a single expressio unius challenge but two. Page Proof Pending Publication The dissent founders on the same shoals. It suggests that the “pattern” of account-specifc language in the willful pen- alty provision and the reasonable cause exception “con- not[es]” that the nonwillful penalty provision must operate on a per-account basis. Post, at , – (opinion of Barrett, J.). But (again), just because two provisions in the law are similar does not mean we may ignore differences found in a third. Seeking a way around the problem, the At argument, the government explained that the reasonable cause ex- ception works in this fashion to protect those who fle a late FBAR so long as the report they eventually fle accurately provides the required information. Tr. of Oral Arg. –. What if an individual (like Mr. Bittner) fails to fle a timely report and later fles an inaccurate one—would the statute classify that as two viola- tions of the duty to fle a statutorily compliant report rather than one? The parties do not join issue on the question and we do not pass upon it. Nor does the answer matter for present purposes. Either way, the stat- ute conditions nonwillful penalties on the number of reports, not on the number of accounts. BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court dissent points to the fact that even a single qualifying for- eign bank account “triggers” the duty to fle a report, and the fact that a compliant report must contain a “list of infor- mation” about bank addresses and the like. Post, at . These features of the law, the dissent says, “underscor[e]” that nonwillful violations accrue per account. Ibid. But that simply does not follow. The fact that a person has a duty to fle a report, or provide certain information in a re- port, does not tell us whether penalties for nonwillful viola- tions accrue per report or multiply per account without re- gard to an individual's net worth or foreign holdings. B Widening our view beyond § and § , we fnd other contextual clues pressing against the government's theory. Consider what the government itself has told the public about the BSA. In , the Department of the Treasury issued a notice of proposed rulemaking warning that, under its proposed rules, “[a] person who is required to fle an FBAR and fails to properly fle may be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $,.” Fed. Reg. (). Elsewhere, the government has told suspected FBAR viola- tors that “[f]or the failure to fle . . . the penalty cannot ex- ceed $,.” IRS, Letter , p. (Mar. ). Instruc- tions included with the FBAR form have cautioned that “[a] person who is required to fle an FBAR and fails to properly fle may be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $,.” Page Proof Pending Publication The dissent also stresses that U. S. C. § imposes two duties—a duty to fle reports and keep records. Post, at . From this, the dis- sent reasons, “if violations of [the] recordkeeping obligation accrue on a per-account basis, the same should be true of violations of [the] obligation to fle reports.” Ibid. But the question whether violations of the record- keeping duty accrue per account or on some other basis is not before us. Nor is it obvious why violations of two separate statutory duties must accrue in the same way—especially when the law authorizes the Secretary to “prescrib[e]” different “way[s]” the two duties may be discharged. § (a). Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court IRS, Form TD F –., p. (Mar. ). An IRS “Fact Sheet” has advised that, “[f]or the FBAR, the penalty may be up to $,, if the failure to fle is non-willful.” IRS, Offshore Income and Filing Information for Taxpayers with Offshore Accounts, FS–– (June ). Ms. Boyd her- self received a similarly worded letter alerting her that “ `[f]or the failure to fle [the FBAR] . . . the penalty cannot exceed $,.' ” Boyd, F. d, at , n. (alterations in original and emphasis deleted). None of these representations about the law's operation fts easily with the government's current theory. In all of these warnings, fact sheets, and instructions, the govern- ment seemed to tell the public that the failure to fle a report represents a single violation exposing a nonwillful violator to one $, penalty. Nowhere in these materials did the government announce its current theory that a single def- cient or untimely report can give rise to multiple violations, that the number of nonwillful penalties may turn on the num- ber of accounts, or that the $, maximum penalty may be multiplied times or more without respect to an indi- vidual's foreign holdings or net worth. Page Proof Pending Publication Doubtless, the government's guidance documents do not control our analysis and cannot displace our independent ob- ligation to interpret the law. But this Court has long said that courts may consider the consistency of an agency's views when we weigh the persuasiveness of any interpreta- tion it proffers in court. Skidmore v. Swift & Co., U. S. , (). Here, the government has repeatedly is- sued guidance to the public at odds with the interpretation it now asks us to adopt. And surely that counts as one more reason yet to question whether its current position repre- sents the best view of the law. The dissent expresses “surpris[e]” that we cite the government's guid- ance documents. Post, at . We don't see why. Our point is not that the administrative guidance is controlling. Nor is it that the govern- ment's guidance documents have consistently endorsed Mr. Bittner's read- BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court The drafting history of the nonwillful penalty provision undermines the government's theory too. When Congress adopted the BSA in , the law included penalties only for willful violations and capped them at $,. § (a), Stat. . It took many years before Congress in au- thorized the government to impose penalties on a per- account basis for certain willful violations. § (c), Stat. –. And it took many years more before Con- gress in amended the law again to authorize penalties for nonwillful violations. § (a), Stat. . When crafting this latest provision, it would have been the simplest thing for Congress to model its work on its amendment and authorize per-account penalties for nonwillful violations just as it had for certain willful ones. But Congress didn't do anything like that. The language it adopted for nonwill- ful penalties in bears scant resemblance to the language it used when authorizing per-account penalties for certain willful violations in . Page Proof Pending Publication Consider as well Congress's statement of purpose. Con- gress has declared that the BSA's “purpose” is “to require” certain “reports” or “records” that may assist the govern- ment in everything from criminal and tax to intelligence and counterintelligence investigations. U. S. C. § . ing of the law. It is simply that, when the government (or any litigant) speaks out of both sides of its mouth, no one should be surprised if its latest utterance isn't the most convincing one. This is no new principle in the law any more than it is in life. In Skidmore, this Court noted that the persuasiveness of an agency's interpretation of the law may be undermined by its inconsistency “with earlier [agency] pronouncements.” U. S., at . “A preamble, purpose clause, or recital is a permissible indicator of meaning.” A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts () (Scalia & Garner). See also J. Story, Commen- taries on the Constitution of the United States § , p. () (“[T]he preamble of a statute is a key to open the mind of the makers, as to the mischiefs, which are to be remedied, and the objects, which are to be accomplished by the provisions of the statute”). Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Here we see further evidence that the relevant legal duty the BSA establishes is the duty to fle certain reports. We see evidence, too, that the point of these reports is to supply the government with information potentially relevant to var- ious kinds of investigations, criminal and civil alike. But what we do not see is any indication that Congress sought to maximize penalties for every nonwillful mistake (whether a late fling, a transposed account number, or an out-of-date bank address). See Brief for American College of Trust and Estate Counsel as Amicus Curiae –. The Secretary's regulations implementing the BSA convey the same message. Under those regulations, individuals with fewer than accounts must provide details about each account while those (like Mr. Bittner) with or more accounts do not need to list each one or provide account- specifc details about any of them. CFR § .(g)(). Instead, flers with or more accounts “need only provide the number of fnancial accounts and certain other basic information.” Ibid. Naturally, an individual must sup- ply more “detailed information” if the “Secretary or his delegate” later chooses to follow up and request it. Ibid. But no detailed account-level information is required in the fler's initial report. It's yet another feature of the BSA and its regulatory scheme that suggests the law aims to provide the government with a report suffcient to tip it to the need for further investigation, not to ensure the presentation of every detail or maximize revenue for each mistake. Page Proof Pending Publication The dissent insists that its per-account theory would better advance “the statute's purpose” of cracking down on criminals and terrorists. Post, at . But few statutes pursue their stated “ `purpose at all costs.' ” Kucana v. Holder, U. S. , (). Nor is it clear how calculat- ing nonwillful penalties on a per-account basis would advance the purpose the dissent attributes to the BSA. Are we to imagine that drug cartels and terrorists often make innocent mistakes when fling their FBARs? BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court The Secretary's regulation also points to some of the anomalies that accompany the government's per-account the- ory. On the government's telling, an individual with, say, three accounts who makes nonwillful errors when providing details about these accounts faces a potential penalty of $,. He faces that penalty no matter how slight his er- rors, and regardless whether his foreign holdings (or even net worth) approach the same amount. Meanwhile, a person with bank accounts runs far less risk of incurring any penalty. He doesn't have to provide any detail about his accounts, just correctly disclose how many he holds. See also Brief for American College of Tax Counsel as Amicus Curiae – (Brief for Tax Counsel). Nor is this the only incongruity the government's theory invites. Consider someone who has a $ million balance in a single account who nonwillfully fails to report that account. Everyone agrees he is subject to a single penalty of $,. Yet under the government's theory, another person engaging in the same nonwillful conduct with respect to a dozen for- eign accounts with an aggregate balance of $, would be subject to a penalty of $,. Id., at –. Page Proof Pending Publication On the government's view, too, those who willfully violate the law may face lower penalties than those who violate the law nonwillfully. For example, an individual who holds $ million in a foreign account during the course of a year but withdraws it before the fling deadline and then willfully fails to fle an FBAR faces a maximum penalty of $,. But a person who errs nonwillfully in listing accounts with an aggregate balance of $, can face a penalty of up to $,. Id., at . Reading the law to apply nonwillful penalties per report invites none of these curiosities; the gov- ernment's per-account theory invites them all. The dissent suggests that these examples bear “limited relevance” be- cause it is only “natura[l]” that a person “who violates the law many times” might incur more penalties. Post, at –. But this assumes Cite as: U. S. ()