We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, United States ex rel. Polansky versus Executive Health Resources. Mr. Geyser. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL L. GEYSER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell --I -- I was just going to say, however many times it comes up in general, this was a specific case in which the government makes a strong argument that the facts did change and changed dramatically. The United States jumped in when they -- when the extent of the burden in terms of the documents they would have to review became clear and when also the -- at least some questionable conduct of your client with respect to discovery came to light.Sure.Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, any? Justice Alito?Justice --Justice Kagan? Justice Gorsuch?Justice Barrett? Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Liu. ORAL ARGUMENT OF FREDERICK LIU ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT UNITED STATESMr. Liu, it -- it -- your case would be easier for you, maybe for us, if your client had a more robust view of Article II. I was surprised it's cited only once in your brief, you know, on page . We're talking about the government's ability to control a suit with billions of dollars of money defrauded against federal law according to the allegations, and yet you're -- you're not arguing much about the President's authority to enforce that -- that statute at all.Well, that depends upon your prevailing in -- in this case. I mean, if you don't, then your authority to control the action would be significantly circumscribed.Justice Thomas, anything further? Justice Alito?Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch?Justice Barrett? Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Mosier. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK W. MOSIER ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT EXECUTIVE HEALTH RESOURCES, INC.Counsel, is it consistent with the Congress's view of these sorts of actions, going back to , to continue to leave the entire proceeding in the hands of the government, which it would be under your theory? In other words, the government didn't have a statutory right to intervene until -something. And yet, now you would join the government and say basically that they can bring the -- bring the suit to a halt at any time and, given the looseness of the standard that's being 