PRELIMINARY PRINT Volume U. S. Part Pages – OFFICIAL REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT January , REBECCA A. WOMELDORF reporter of decisions Page Proof Pending Publication NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. , pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors. OCTOBER TERM, Per Curiam IN RE GRAND JURY certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit No. –. Argued January , —Decided January , Certiorari dismissed. Reported below: F. th . Daniel B. Levin argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief were Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., J. Max Rosen, Rachel G. Miller-Ziegler, and Evan J. Davis. Masha G. Hansford argued the cause for the United States. With her on the brief were Solicitor General Prelo- gar, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Hubbert, Deputy Solicitor General Feigin, S. Robert Lyons, Joseph B. Syver- son, and Mark S. Determan.* Per Curiam. The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently granted. It is so ordered. *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the American Bar Association by Deborah Enix-Ross and John M. Colvin; for the American College of Tax Counsel by Hashim M. Mooppan, Kathryn Keneally, Kelly C. Holt, and Lawrence Hill; for the Buckeye Institute by Mark D. Harris and Robert Alt; for the California Lawyers Association by Laura L. Buck- ley and Adria Price; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America et al. by John S. Williams, Jennifer B. Dickey, Amy Chai, and Kevin Carroll; for Lawyers for Civil Justice by Jonathan M. Redgrave and Gareth T. Evans; for Silicon Valley Tax Directors Group by Jonathan C. Bond, Saul Mezei, Lucas C. Townsend, and Vladimir J. Semendyai; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by John M. Masslon II and Cory L. Andrews. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Association of Professional Responsibility Lawyers by Arden J. Olson, William F. Gary, Sharon A. Rudnick, and W. William Hodes; for the Atlantic Legal Foundation by Lawrence S. Ebner, Ana Tagvoryan, and Arash Beral; for DRI Center Page Proof Pending Publication IN RE GRAND JURY Per Curiam for Law and Public Policy by E. Todd Presnell; for Federation of De- fense & Corporate Counsel by Mary-Christine Sungaila; and for the New York Intellectual Property Law Association by Irena Royzman, Robert J. Rando, Robert M. Isackson, and Mark A. Chapman. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: None