We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Muldrow versus the City of St. Louis. Mr. Wolfman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN WOLFMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell --Go ahead.Well, that'sThis is very-- I -- and I'm sorry if I'm just repeating questions, but it's -- it's a very obviously significant thing and I found it extremely confusing looking at the briefs. You each say that the other concedes We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, O'Connor-Ratcliff versus Garnier. Mr. Mooppan. ORAL ARGUMENT OF HASHIM M. MOOPPAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSIs this a site-by-site determination or a message-by-message? In other words, let's say you have, you know, a site that's used every now and then for what you might characterize as official announcements, but the rest of the time it's, you know -- you know, my -- my child got a, you know, blue ribbon or something like that. Do you say that, well, you look at each episode of blocking or whatever as -- as governmental because they use it for We will hear argument this morning in Case -, Pulsifer versus United States. Mr. Dvoretzky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERThank you.Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, anything further? Justice Alito?Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch?Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett?Justice -- We will hear argument this morning in Case -, Acheson Hotels versus Laufer. Mr. Unikowsky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ADAM G. UNIKOWSKY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERI -- I suppose logically standing is an antecedent question to mootness, right? You can't have something moot until you have a case.What -- I'm sorry to -- well, go ahead.Which --I was just going to say I'm as concerned as anybody about our workload, but -- (Laughter.) CHIEFWith --Yes.Thank you, counsel. If -- how many hotels did Ms. Laufer contact in how many different places?So, if she alleges that she may well go to this particular hotel, you would be able to challenge the veracity of that allegation, right?Okay. Thank We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau versus the Community Financial Services Association. General Prelogar. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS GENERAL PRELOGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: The Fifth Circuit's decision in this case is the first time any court in our nation's history has held that Congress violated the Appropriations Clause by enacting a statute providing funding. This Court should uphold the CFPB's funding statute because it is firmly grounded in constitutional text and in historical practice dating back to the founding. The text of the Constitution shows that when the Framers wanted to limit Congress's appropriations authority, they did so expressly. And while the Framers restricted appropriations for the Army to two years, they We'll hear argument next in Case -, Great Lakes Insurance versus Raiders Retreat Realty. Mr. Wall. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERYour -- your argument, I take it, is that there is an established federal maritime rule not simply on choice-of-law provisions but, I don't know, the Uberrimae Fidei doctrine, in other words, that even if your boat runs aground, you know, if you didn't have the fire extinguisher, you know, updated, you -- you lose. What if there weren't an established maritime policy on that specific doctrine?Well, I wonder if it --I was just going to say -- sorry to interrupt -- but, I mean, certainly, the argument can be made -- and I -- I think it's the argument of your friend on the other side -- that Wilburn Boat is expressly designed to do what you indicated that it doesn't matter, which is, if you have a very particular question like how the insurance policy should be interpreted, and there's no federal rule. There are general federal rules about choice-of-law, you know, but not the particular question there. We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Culley versus Marshall. Mr. Dvoretzky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSWell, you say courts rarely do that. Do we have any evidence about how long or how often courts in Alabama grant motions to expedite in this context?Thank you, counsel. I'd like to give you an opportunity to respond to the arguments raised I think primarily in the brief for the Solicitor General that requiring retention hearings at the early period that -- that you would will prejudice procedures under the civil forfeiture regime.Yeah, but the We'll hear argument next in Case -, Lindke versus Freed. Mr. Kedem. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLON KEDEM ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell, I mean, these -- on these pages, people -- people have both a job in the government and they have all sorts of other things, whether it's cats or children or whatever it is, and the problem it seems to me is we kind of have to disaggregate that, right, and say, well, you know, you have to have a governmental page and you have to have a private page and you can't mention the government on your private page or else it's going to become a government page. And as I understand it, you basically say, if you've got percent government, then we, the government, can basically say the whole thing, even if the rest of it is all about your children and -- and -- and the dogs, that's ours. And if we don't like little dogs, we can say you can't put pictures of little dogs on there. We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Brown versus United States, and the consolidated case. Mr. Green. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY T. GREEN ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER BROWNThank you.Yeah. Thank you, counsel. One of the things you emphasize in your -- not emphasize -- raise in your brief is the complexity that would accompany the government's approach. You know, as -- as you said, prosecutors, courts, probation officers, defense counsel would have to track down, cross-reference outdated federal. I -- I don't think that's that hard at all and -- and not that I could do it, but, you know, people who are -- (Laughter.) CHIEFWell, but I guess my point is they're defunct and they're decades old and they're readily available on current databases with a couple of key strokes?Thank you, We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Murray versus UBS Securities. Ms. Anand. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EASHA ANAND ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERJustice Alito.Thank you. Thank you, counsel. Normally, in the law in these types of cases, there is a distinction between liability and causation. In a car accident, you're speeding and you hit a car and injure the person or allegedly injure the person, the speeding is liability, right? Whether that has resulted in an injury, whether it's caused it is -- is a different question. Now your position merges those two, right? You don't separately look for liability and causation?Well, that's causation. And I think your friend on the other side draws the sharp distinction between liability and causation. And your position is that there is no distinction of that sort?Thank you. Justice Thomas? Justice Alito? Justice Sotomayor? Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch? Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett? Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Yang. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERThank you, counsel. Justice Thomas? Justice Alito?Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch?Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett?Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Scalia. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EUGENE SCALIA ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSCounsel --Counsel --Counsel ---- both of your -- the counsel on the other side said that discrimination is simply treating people differently. I gather it's the essence of your position that that's not true?Well, intentional -- there must be more to that term if you think that those sentences from your adversaries are -- are wrong because you can intentionally treat people differently, but you think that's not necessarily discrimination?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, anything further? Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan -- oh, I'm sorry.Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch? Justice Kavanaugh? Justice Barrett?Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel.Rebuttal, Ms. Anand? REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EASHA ANAND ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERThank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case was submitted.) We will hear argument next in Case -, Wilkinson versus Garland. Ms. Santos. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAIME A. SANTOS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERAnd how manyAnd -- and can you tell us how many people have a similar list We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Vidal versus Elster. Mr. Stewart. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell, it's theWell, but you -- you acknowledge, I think, that there may be -- the government benefit, even if it's properly characterized as a benefit, may be so significant that your analysis would not hold?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, anything further? We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, McElrath versus Georgia. Mr. Simpson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. SIMPSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell, as a general matter, do you agree that it's a matter of state law when jeopardy terminates? Because that's the -- that's the -- that's the basic question, right, whether the defendant is being put in jeopardy more than once. So you have to have the first jeopardy terminate before you can We will -- we'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Moore versus United States. Counsel. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW M. GROSSMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSWell, there certainly is realization here by the corporation, if not the taxpayers, right? It isn't a case like appreciation of property where nothing has happened. You know, you buy a property, you're holding it for years, you haven't sold it, nothing has happened. Here, something has happened, and income has gone to the corporation, isn't that right?Thank you, counsel. We will hear argument this morning in Case -, Alexander versus the South Carolina State Conference of the NAACP. Mr. Gore. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN M. GORE ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTSWell, I thought -- I thought he said that as far as geographic contiguity, that the -- the size of the different districts was a adequate proxy for that.Thank you, Mr. Gore. If I could move to a ,-foot perspective, how do you understand what we're supposed to do in evaluating clear error? I mean, we have just an appendices in this case that is like that, and let's say there are a hundred different factual determinations. If we think of them are wrong, do we reverse for clear error in that -- in that situation?Or -- or does it take more? We don't normally review -- other than in these cases, we don't normally review a record for factual findings, and I'm just wondering how you think we should do that.So we just give different degrees of the importance of particular facts and weigh those ---- in reviewing the entire record?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas? Justice Alito?Justice We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Department of Agriculture Rural Development Rural Housing Service versus Kirtz. Mr. Snyder. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN W. SNYDER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSure.We'll afford you a couple minutes for rebuttal.Thank you, Mr. Snyder.Justice Thomas? Justice Alito? No? Sure?Justice Kavanaugh? We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, the Securities and Exchange Commission versus Jarkesy. Mr. Fletcher. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN H. FLETCHER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERCould -- could I ask you just a couple of examples and see where it falls under your definition? The federal government, in association with the states, built the interstate highway system, an enormous benefit to members of the public. Could the government decide that accidents interfere with what they were trying to accomplish in the highway system and create an agency to hear and adjudicate who's liable, responsible, and how much for accidents on the highway system? No court, no jury?Well, only -- only on a system where they gave the benefit which those people that have the accidents are taking advantage of. I understood that to be part of the aspect of the public rights doctrine.So -- so what about healthcare? The government's involved in the healthcare sector. Could an agency determine that the cost of medical malpractice claims throughout healthcare, not just the particular aspect which the government's participating in, interferes with what they're trying to accomplish in the healthcare system, and so the subject of medical malpractice will be handled by a government agency, an expert We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Rudisill versus McDonough, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Tseytlin. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MISHA TSEYTLIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERIt may make --I'm sorry? I was just going to say it may make some sense into -- in what they probably envisioned was the normal situation, where you had the overlapping benefits on the basis of continuous service. But I'm not sure it makes much sense in the situation that you have, where the benefits are earned because of separate periods of service.In that We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, United States versus Rahimi. General Prelogar. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER GENERAL PRELOGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Guns and domestic abuse are a deadly combination. As this Court has said, all too often, the only difference between a battered woman and a dead woman is the presence of a gun. Armed abusers also pose grave danger to police officers responding to domestic violence calls and to the public at large, as Zackey Rahimi's own conduct shows. To address that acute threat, Congress and states and territories temporarily disarm individuals subject to domestic violence protective orders. Congress designed Section (g)() to target the most dangerous domestic abusers. It applies only if, after notice and a hearing, a court makes an express finding that We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Harrington versus Purdue Pharma. Mr. Gannon. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERCounsel, the argument that you just described, which was the same one you began with, which is you have a series of provisions focused on particular issues that arise in the context of the bankruptcy and then you have a general catchall talking about appropriate provisions not inconsistent, it seems to me that that's a fairly clear case for the application of what is We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Muldrow versus the City of St. Louis. Mr. Wolfman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN WOLFMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell --Go ahead.Well, that'sThis is very-- I -- and I'm sorry if I'm just repeating questions, but it's -- it's a very obviously significant thing and I found it extremely confusing looking at the briefs. You each say that the other concedes We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, O'Connor-Ratcliff versus Garnier. Mr. Mooppan. ORAL ARGUMENT OF HASHIM M. MOOPPAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSIs this a site-by-site determination or a message-by-message? In other words, let's say you have, you know, a site that's used every now and then for what you might characterize as official announcements, but the rest of the time it's, you know -- you know, my -- my child got a, you know, blue ribbon or something like that. Do you say that, well, you look at each episode of blocking or whatever as -- as governmental because they use it for We will hear argument this morning in Case -, Pulsifer versus United States. Mr. Dvoretzky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERThank you.Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, anything further? Justice Alito?Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch?Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett?Justice -- We will hear argument this morning in Case -, Acheson Hotels versus Laufer. Mr. Unikowsky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ADAM G. UNIKOWSKY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERI -- I suppose logically standing is an antecedent question to mootness, right? You can't have something moot until you have a case.What -- I'm sorry to -- well, go ahead.Which --I was just going to say I'm as concerned as anybody about our workload, but -- (Laughter.) CHIEFWith --Yes.Thank you, counsel. If -- how many hotels did Ms. Laufer contact in how many different places?So, if she alleges that she may well go to this particular hotel, you would be able to challenge the veracity of that allegation, right?Okay. Thank We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau versus the Community Financial Services Association. General Prelogar. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS GENERAL PRELOGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: The Fifth Circuit's decision in this case is the first time any court in our nation's history has held that Congress violated the Appropriations Clause by enacting a statute providing funding. This Court should uphold the CFPB's funding statute because it is firmly grounded in constitutional text and in historical practice dating back to the founding. The text of the Constitution shows that when the Framers wanted to limit Congress's appropriations authority, they did so expressly. And while the Framers restricted appropriations for the Army to two years, they We'll hear argument next in Case -, Great Lakes Insurance versus Raiders Retreat Realty. Mr. Wall. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERYour -- your argument, I take it, is that there is an established federal maritime rule not simply on choice-of-law provisions but, I don't know, the Uberrimae Fidei doctrine, in other words, that even if your boat runs aground, you know, if you didn't have the fire extinguisher, you know, updated, you -- you lose. What if there weren't an established maritime policy on that specific doctrine?Well, I wonder if it --I was just going to say -- sorry to interrupt -- but, I mean, certainly, the argument can be made -- and I -- I think it's the argument of your friend on the other side -- that Wilburn Boat is expressly designed to do what you indicated that it doesn't matter, which is, if you have a very particular question like how the insurance policy should be interpreted, and there's no federal rule. There are general federal rules about choice-of-law, you know, but not the particular question there. We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Culley versus Marshall. Mr. Dvoretzky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSWell, you say courts rarely do that. Do we have any evidence about how long or how often courts in Alabama grant motions to expedite in this context?Thank you, counsel. I'd like to give you an opportunity to respond to the arguments raised I think primarily in the brief for the Solicitor General that requiring retention hearings at the early period that -- that you would will prejudice procedures under the civil forfeiture regime.Yeah, but the We'll hear argument next in Case -, Lindke versus Freed. Mr. Kedem. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLON KEDEM ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell, I mean, these -- on these pages, people -- people have both a job in the government and they have all sorts of other things, whether it's cats or children or whatever it is, and the problem it seems to me is we kind of have to disaggregate that, right, and say, well, you know, you have to have a governmental page and you have to have a private page and you can't mention the government on your private page or else it's going to become a government page. And as I understand it, you basically say, if you've got percent government, then we, the government, can basically say the whole thing, even if the rest of it is all about your children and -- and -- and the dogs, that's ours. And if we don't like little dogs, we can say you can't put pictures of little dogs on there. We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Brown versus United States, and the consolidated case. Mr. Green. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY T. GREEN ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER BROWNThank you.Yeah. Thank you, counsel. One of the things you emphasize in your -- not emphasize -- raise in your brief is the complexity that would accompany the government's approach. You know, as -- as you said, prosecutors, courts, probation officers, defense counsel would have to track down, cross-reference outdated federal. I -- I don't think that's that hard at all and -- and not that I could do it, but, you know, people who are -- (Laughter.) CHIEFWell, but I guess my point is they're defunct and they're decades old and they're readily available on current databases with a couple of key strokes?Thank you, We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Murray versus UBS Securities. Ms. Anand. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EASHA ANAND ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERJustice Alito.Thank you. Thank you, counsel. Normally, in the law in these types of cases, there is a distinction between liability and causation. In a car accident, you're speeding and you hit a car and injure the person or allegedly injure the person, the speeding is liability, right? Whether that has resulted in an injury, whether it's caused it is -- is a different question. Now your position merges those two, right? You don't separately look for liability and causation?Well, that's causation. And I think your friend on the other side draws the sharp distinction between liability and causation. And your position is that there is no distinction of that sort?Thank you. Justice Thomas? Justice Alito? Justice Sotomayor? Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch? Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett? Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Yang. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERThank you, counsel. Justice Thomas? Justice Alito?Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch?Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett?Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Scalia. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EUGENE SCALIA ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSCounsel --Counsel --Counsel ---- both of your -- the counsel on the other side said that discrimination is simply treating people differently. I gather it's the essence of your position that that's not true?Well, intentional -- there must be more to that term if you think that those sentences from your adversaries are -- are wrong because you can intentionally treat people differently, but you think that's not necessarily discrimination?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, anything further? Justice Sotomayor?Justice Kagan -- oh, I'm sorry.Justice Kagan?Justice Gorsuch? Justice Kavanaugh? Justice Barrett?Justice Jackson?Thank you, counsel.Rebuttal, Ms. Anand? REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EASHA ANAND ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERThank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case was submitted.) We will hear argument next in Case -, Wilkinson versus Garland. Ms. Santos. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAIME A. SANTOS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERAnd how manyAnd -- and can you tell us how many people have a similar list We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Vidal versus Elster. Mr. Stewart. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell, it's theWell, but you -- you acknowledge, I think, that there may be -- the government benefit, even if it's properly characterized as a benefit, may be so significant that your analysis would not hold?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas, anything further? We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, McElrath versus Georgia. Mr. Simpson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. SIMPSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWell, as a general matter, do you agree that it's a matter of state law when jeopardy terminates? Because that's the -- that's the -- that's the basic question, right, whether the defendant is being put in jeopardy more than once. So you have to have the first jeopardy terminate before you can We will -- we'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Moore versus United States. Counsel. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW M. GROSSMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSWell, there certainly is realization here by the corporation, if not the taxpayers, right? It isn't a case like appreciation of property where nothing has happened. You know, you buy a property, you're holding it for years, you haven't sold it, nothing has happened. Here, something has happened, and income has gone to the corporation, isn't that right?Thank you, counsel. We will hear argument this morning in Case -, Alexander versus the South Carolina State Conference of the NAACP. Mr. Gore. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN M. GORE ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTSWell, I thought -- I thought he said that as far as geographic contiguity, that the -- the size of the different districts was a adequate proxy for that.Thank you, Mr. Gore. If I could move to a ,-foot perspective, how do you understand what we're supposed to do in evaluating clear error? I mean, we have just an appendices in this case that is like that, and let's say there are a hundred different factual determinations. If we think of them are wrong, do we reverse for clear error in that -- in that situation?Or -- or does it take more? We don't normally review -- other than in these cases, we don't normally review a record for factual findings, and I'm just wondering how you think we should do that.So we just give different degrees of the importance of particular facts and weigh those ---- in reviewing the entire record?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas? Justice Alito?Justice We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Department of Agriculture Rural Development Rural Housing Service versus Kirtz. Mr. Snyder. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN W. SNYDER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSure.We'll afford you a couple minutes for rebuttal.Thank you, Mr. Snyder.Justice Thomas? Justice Alito? No? Sure?Justice Kavanaugh? We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, the Securities and Exchange Commission versus Jarkesy. Mr. Fletcher. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN H. FLETCHER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERCould -- could I ask you just a couple of examples and see where it falls under your definition? The federal government, in association with the states, built the interstate highway system, an enormous benefit to members of the public. Could the government decide that accidents interfere with what they were trying to accomplish in the highway system and create an agency to hear and adjudicate who's liable, responsible, and how much for accidents on the highway system? No court, no jury?Well, only -- only on a system where they gave the benefit which those people that have the accidents are taking advantage of. I understood that to be part of the aspect of the public rights doctrine.So -- so what about healthcare? The government's involved in the healthcare sector. Could an agency determine that the cost of medical malpractice claims throughout healthcare, not just the particular aspect which the government's participating in, interferes with what they're trying to accomplish in the healthcare system, and so the subject of medical malpractice will be handled by a government agency, an expert We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, Rudisill versus McDonough, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Tseytlin. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MISHA TSEYTLIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERIt may make --I'm sorry? I was just going to say it may make some sense into -- in what they probably envisioned was the normal situation, where you had the overlapping benefits on the basis of continuous service. But I'm not sure it makes much sense in the situation that you have, where the benefits are earned because of separate periods of service.In that We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, United States versus Rahimi. General Prelogar. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER GENERAL PRELOGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Guns and domestic abuse are a deadly combination. As this Court has said, all too often, the only difference between a battered woman and a dead woman is the presence of a gun. Armed abusers also pose grave danger to police officers responding to domestic violence calls and to the public at large, as Zackey Rahimi's own conduct shows. To address that acute threat, Congress and states and territories temporarily disarm individuals subject to domestic violence protective orders. Congress designed Section (g)() to target the most dangerous domestic abusers. It applies only if, after notice and a hearing, a court makes an express finding that 