JUSTICE ALITO:  If someone purchases
an -- an agent check or a teller check, what
information about that purchaser does the bank
transmit to MoneyGram?
MR. KATYAL: None.  That's what the
record says.
JUSTICE ALITO:  Nothing? MR. KATYAL: They collect the
information, but it's not transmitted.  And so the record like at -- at our appendix page 599
says the information is collected.
JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, they have to
tell MoneyGram something.
MR. KATYAL: They tell -- they -- they
don't tell the -- the actual name, the name of
the payee or the address of the payee, the
relevant information here.  And, Justice Alito, your opinion in the Yee case talked about the
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, you make the --
JUSTICE ALITO:  You make the fair
point that the states could require the banks to transmit this information to MoneyGram.  But
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE ALITO:  Whether a bank
employee signs the check or not is a formality. What --what is the effect of that?
MR. KATYAL:  We -- we think it's more
than a formality.  We think that is actually the relevant characteristic that Munn's, Wallach, and Lawrence all say that makes something a bank check, you look to that.
Now, admittedly, it's not the clearest
of phrases, but we think that's the one that gives it some meaning and reflects Congress's 1974 knowledge. Teller's checks were around in '74, and yet Congress didn't enumerate them in 2503, much more narrow statute than the 1966 one.
JUSTICE ALITO:  Thank you.
JUSTICE ALITO:  Can I mention a --a
number of different things and ask you to tell me whether you think they are subject to the FDA?
So the first one is a conventional
cashier's check or a teller's check issued by a local bank and used to pay its own obligations.
MR. BRONNI: I -- so I would say, it's
-- under our definition, it doesn't meet our definition of a money order.  We have not taken a position necessarily on whether it's a similar written instrument, but I -- I think that there are reasons for believing that it is not because, again, that is not an instrument that would present the windfall problem, as Your Honor framed it.
JUSTICE ALITO:  And what about a -- a
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE ALITO:  How about a prepaid
cash card?  Some grandparents always used to send their grandchildren a MoneyGram -- a
MoneyGram for Christmas.  And now they want to become more modern, so they send them a prepaid Visa cash card.
MR. BRONNI: Not covered either as a
money order or a similar written instrument because it has to have a named payee, and gift cards do not have named payees.
JUSTICE ALITO:  How about a gift
certificate that does have a named payee?
Heritage Reporting Corporation
Unless there are --JUSTICE ALITO:  Your argument is that
in 1974 everybody would have known what a third-party bank check means? I actually do
remember 1974.
(Laughter.) MR. BRONNI: I think banking
regulators might have known what it meant. Maybe not ordinary people.  But --