JUSTICE KAGAN:  So I -- I guess I
didn't understand until argument that you're saying that "money orders" is an only label test, is that right?  And then the "similar instruments" is where the -- the characteristics
of money orders come in, is that right?
MR. KATYAL: Correct. JUSTICE KAGAN:  And then what are the
characteristics of money orders that you're pointing to?  Like, what --what -- what -- what
does some other non- labeled instrument have to
comply with in order to be determined to be a "similar instrument"?
MR. KATYAL: Well, I do think it would
be a transfer of information in which address
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I mean, it feels
as though you're picking things that, you know, as you should, that -- that -- that make you
succeed in the case.  But I could pick three
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE KAGAN:  So does that mean we
determine cashier's checks one by one by one
depending on whether it's prepaid?
MR. BRONNI: No, Your Honor.  I think
this is one of the reasons why we're judging things sort of on a class of instruments, and as a class of instruments in contrast to official checks and money orders, these are not always prepaid, so that it's a class- wide distinction.
But, even aside from that, there are
other reasons why we believe that cashier's checks, even aside from our definition, would not be swept in under the term "money order."
And one of those reasons is I think,
as, Justice Thomas, your question reflects, you know, so there are instruments in the world that people would not describe as money orders even if they share some of the common core features, and a cashier's check is a good example of that.
We would not in ordinary parlance call
a cashier's check a money order because it is a unique instrument in that it's issued by the
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE KAGAN:  If "money order" is as
broad as you're saying it is, what's left for "similar instrument"?
MR. BRONNI: I -- I think, Your Honor,
when --when Congress uses phrases like "money
orders," "traveler's checks" and then follows it by a catch -all, I think what that oftentimes
reflects, as this Court has said, is Congress is -- is concerned with covering the field and not leaving any loopholes.  So it may very well be
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE KAGAN:  It was just like a "in
case"?
MR. BRONNI: I -- I -- I think --
JUSTICE KAGAN:  Just in case something
comes up or we missed something or whatever?
MR. BRONNI: That's one way of looking
at it. The other option is it's to ensure -- if
you accept Delaware's front- line argument, to
ensure that you can't simply change the label on an instrument and have it be something else.
JUSTICE KAGAN:  Yeah, but it might be,
right? I mean, I think that this is the -- the
strength of Mr. Katyal's argument, that they were thinking of something called traveler's checks, they had used traveler's checks, and they were thinking of something called money orders, like the prototypical things that the Chief Justice was talking about, they had seen money orders, they had used money orders, and then they said, "you know, maybe there's some stuff that functions in the same way that does pretty much the same thing, that has similar
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE KAGAN:  You seem to be trying
very hard to exclude various kinds of products. Why is that?  Why not just say, okay, they're all included, that's good?
MR. BRONNI: Well, I --I think, Your
Honor, that when Congress uses -- to -- to go
back to the language of the statute, when it says money orders, traveler's checks, or similar written instruments, it's -- it's referring to two things that had -- traveler's checks and
money orders that had understandings in 1974 that we can rely on.
And by using that terminology and
using those two instruments as an example, it --
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE KAGAN:  I --I guess they
failed in that endeavor to make things doubly clear.
(Laughter.)
Heritage Reporting Corporation