JUSTICE THOMAS:  Mr. Katyal, how much
weight do you put on this money order designation?  What if, tomorrow morning, they simply stamp the top of these, the two disputed instruments, "money order," "commercial money order"?  Would that solve your problem?
MR. KATYAL: So, Justice Thomas, that
-- if they changed the label, we do think that it would mean it's not a money order or
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE THOMAS:  So -- well, the --
can you point to any reason in the past why this would be --this definition of "money order" is
so narrow?  It would seem to me that with its --
over time, it's not necessarily, as you say it
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE THOMAS:  One -- one final
question, and I'm sure my colleagues will have more. But how do you get around "similar," the -- the similarity language? It seems as though all of these are drafts and that if you say, "well, it's not a money order," it looks like a money order in many other ways.
So why is --is it --does it not fall
into the similarity category?
MR. KATYAL: Yes, Justice Thomas.  We
don't think it falls into the similar --
similarity category.  We think that's for things like what you were talking about before in your first question to me, where the --where the
Heritage Reporting Corporation
Justice Thomas, anything further? JUSTICE THOMAS:  No questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Justice Alito? JUSTICE ALITO:  You say that a
third-party bank check is a check that is
effective on the signature of a bank officer.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE THOMAS:  Mr. Bronni, would you
spend a few minutes on the -- Mr. Katyal's
parade of horribles if we accept your argument?
MR. BRONNI: Sure, Your Honor.  I
think it's probably easiest to begin with --with the example of cashier's checks because there's been a lot of ink spilled on the
cashier's check at issue in this case.  And --
and, for that one, we don't believe that cashier's checks are necessarily covered by our definition.
So, to -- to begin with, our
definition requires that an instrument be prepaid.  A cashier's check as a class of instrument is not necessarily a prepaid instrument.  Instead, as the ABA's amicus brief argues at length, there are many frequent, common, ordinary, everyday situations where cashier's checks are not prepaid.
So, for instance, if a bank needs to
pay its own obligations, say it needs to pay an electrician or meet a tax bill, it will issue a check drawn on its own accounts. That's a cashier's check.  That is not a prepaid instrument.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
Justice Thomas, anything further? JUSTICE THOMAS:  Nothing. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Justice Alito? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Do you think we do
more harm or less harm if we take the Special Master's suggestion that we decide this case
with --without adopting a firm definition of
money order?
MR. BRONNI: So I --I think --