JUSTICE GORSUCH:  All right.  I was
sitting here quietly.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  But now you've drawn
me out, Mr. Katy al.
Other similar instruments, the
language Justice Thomas -- I've got a question,
fine, I'll come up with one, all right.  What
does it mean on your account?
And on page 44 of your brief, it says
that "Congress likely intended the term 'other similar written instrument' to capture alternate spellings of 'money order' and 'traveler's check,' such as ... American Express 'Travelers Cheque.'"  Q-U- E.
Okay. Now I am familiar with various
spellings of "traveler's check." I am not familiar with various spellings of "money order."  Help me out.
MR. KATYAL: Yes.  So exactly -- one
category is exactly what Justice Thomas began the argument with, which is a money order in every way, shape, and form, except it doesn't have the label on it. So our argument is not limited, Justice Gorsuch, to different spellings.
Same product without the label is what
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  I take your point.
Okay. But does it underline another point that may be problematic, and that is that labels cannot control substance in our analysis here? We --can we agree on that?
MR. KATYAL: We do. JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Okay. MR. KATYAL: And -- and so our point
is labels are very good at deciding traveler's check, money order.  And they're good not just
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Well, I guess I'm
wondering why -- why they're good for some purposes b ut not others?
MR. KATYAL: Because I think it
reflects, Justice Gorsuch --
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  I mean, you like --
you don't like labels when it comes to this
little -- this little exception here.
MR. KATYAL: Oh, it's not that we
don't like them, Justice --
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  But --well, but if
I -- if I might just finish, I mean, then -- and
then have at it, okay? But you --you admit
that labels can control for some purposes, but yet you do ask us to place quite a lot of weight on "money order" versus "traveler's check" otherwise.  And -- and so I'm just -- I'm -- I'm
-- I'm stuck there. So help me out.
MR. KATYAL: Yeah.  So we -- we think
the labels matter because they matter --they're
not just for courts.  They're, after all, for banks and consumers.  Banks have to figure out, you know, what is this product and where do --which state do we escheat it to? And labels are
Heritage Reporting Corporation
Justice Gorsuch? JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Thank you. JUSTICE KAVANAUGH:  Just to pick up
quickly on Justice Kagan's earlier question on "similar written instrument," that's kind of a
statutory version -- version of ejusdem generis,
I suppose, and we're always trying to figure out
what the key features are.
Why aren't the key features here
prepaid money transmission product, doesn't show last known address of purchaser, and the windfall purpose is implicated?  So you have arguments, but why aren't those the better features to focus on when we're figuring out what "similar" means here?
MR. KATYAL: Be -- because, if you do
that, you blow up the statute to include cashier's checks, certified checks, and all sorts of stuff that Congress knew exactly how to name or to write open- ended statutes and didn't.
And so, to us, you know, goin g back to
the statutory interpretation question, it's like a statute that said, you know, rubber bands, paper clips, or other similar items.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Can I ask you a
question that kind of goes sideways?  At --at
-- at places in your brief, you indicate that you're after not just a declaration of rights here under the Disposition Act, but you actually want money damages for past wrongful takings of monies you think belong to your states.
What --what is the -- what is the
cause of action that permits that?  Is that an implied cause of action under the Disposition Act? What -- I'm just curious, if -- if -- if
we were to agree with you, what happens next and on what theory?
MR. BRONNI: So I --I think it is an
implied cause of action under the statute, but I would add that we have not litigated the damages issue or the question, those kinds of arguments haven't been presented to Judge Leval because
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  But whether there's
an -- such an implied cause of action under the
Disposition Act would be something that the Special Master would have to resolve after this?
MR. BRONNI: For the -- for the
damages issue --
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Yeah.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE GORSUCH:  All right.  All
right. Thank you.  Thank you.
MR. BRONNI: There's one other point I
wanted to -- or a couple of points I wanted to briefly address.  I've -- I mentioned briefly
the bank check thing, but I want to make sure I -- I --I make this clear.
You know, Delaware's definition of a
third-party bank check, setting aside whether an
issuer or processor could be a third party in 1974, and it can't for the reasons the experts explain, but these instruments don't even meet Delaware's own definition of a bank check.  So Delaware says that in order to be a third- party
bank check, something must first be a bank check.
As I mentioned earlier when we were
discussing teller's checks, a -- a -- a bank
check -- and this is -- is really you've only
been offered two sort of reasonable readings of what that term meant in the 1970s or even today, one of which I'll call the sort of technical
Heritage Reporting Corporation