JUSTICE JACKSON:  But, counsel, you
suggest that Congress's concern was the
collection of address information.  If that was so, they certainly did a weird thing in terms of the statute that they wrote.
I mean, the statute did not just say
collect the information, which would have solved the problem directly.  The statute seemed to take into account the fact that there were going to be circumstances in which that information was not collected, and Congress appeared to be trying to override the common law with respect to what happened because it was really concerned about inequitable escheatment.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE JACKSON:  You can only do that
with respect to your own state, right?  I mean, every state would have to adopt that rule in order to solve the problem.  And Congress, it appears, wanted to solve the problem in a different way.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE JACKSON:  And so -- and you're
not reading that to be Congress's attempt, Congress's attempt to break from the common law? You're suggesting that what we do here is going to blow up the common law.  But I had understood that the statute itself was trying to set out a different set of parameters than what existed in the common law.
MR. KATYAL: Oh, absolutely.  We don't
doubt that they did that with respect to traveler's checks and money orders, but there's no indication that they went beyond that.  And we think you should read that narrowly because the entire reason they wanted to move away from the common law with respect to these two instruments is because of the inequity and the addresses not being collected, which would
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE JACKSON:  Yes, just one
question that is confusing me.
You keep suggesting that larger- dollar
products are exempted from the statute, things that would be covered by --like the disputed
instruments, they deal with larger dollar and money order, smaller dollar.
What I don't understand is why that's
the case.  I've heard you said -- say that there
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE JACKSON:  Yes. MR. KATYAL: So the record is clear on
this, and I don't think my friends on --
disagree, that for the disputed instruments, address and payee information is being found. That's our appendix at page 599. It's the ABA brief at page 22.  Our appendix also at page 400 and quoting even from 1956 the ABA report.
The reason why it's being collected
has everything to do with money laundering
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE JACKSON:  Why does it describe
the disputed instruments?  Your opposing counsel says the disputed instruments are a class in which the addresses are typically kept.
MR. BRONNI: So I --I --I think tha t
sometimes the addresses -- I think what the
record actually reflects is that sometimes the addresses are collected by the selling financial
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE JACKSON:  But are they still
viable in the teller's check realm?
MR. BRONNI: They --they -- so there
is some jumbling of the record on this point,
unfortunately, Your Honor, but I think what
Delaware's expert ultimately said is, at most, they might be secondarily liable.  But the --the ultimate liability with the so- called
teller's check instrument is MoneyGram because MoneyGram is the issuer.
JUSTICE JACKSON:  And don't we also
have the legislative history that suggests that the inclusion of third -party bank check was
supposed to be a technical or minor change?
The thing that is a little concerning
to me is that if it is used to exclude instruments that function like money orders, then we're talking about a huge carveout to a statute that was designed to solve the inequitable escheatment problem in a way that doesn't seem technical or minor.
MR. BRONNI: That --I absolutely
agree with that, Your Honor, that Treasury, when
Heritage Reporting Corporation
Justice Jackson? JUSTICE JACKSON:  One final question. So Justice Kagan pointed out that
Congress might have been intending to cover the
field with this statute.  And I guess my question is, so what --what is the field? It
seems as though your friend says that really
Congress was worried about no addresses, and, as a result, large- money instruments wouldn't fit
in the statute because there was an incentive to have addresses.
And I understood you to be focusing on
Congress's be -- concern about inequitable escheatment, in which case these instruments would be covered.  So can you just, as a final word here, talk about what the purpose of this statute is?
MR. BRONNI: I -- I -- I -- well, I'll
start with the purpose of the statute is to address those instruments that presented the windfall inequity problem associated with the Court's common law rule.
I think what they're suggesting is
Heritage Reporting Corporation