JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, the --
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  They take it off. MR. KATYAL: Yeah.  If they take it
off --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It's issued by --
MR. KATYAL: -- that is an other --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- it's issued by
a bank --
MR. KATYAL: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- not a retail
operator.  They do collect information, don't they?
MR. KATYAL: For agent check money
orders, I think some information is collected, yes.
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  All right.  And
what was your third criteria?
MR. KATYAL: That --that you have to
have an account at the bank and --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And they have an
account at the bank.
MR. KATYAL: -- and they may have an
account at the bank.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So --
MR. KATYAL: So, with respect to that,
you know, limited universe, we do -- even there, I guess I should say, let's look at that, Justice Sotomayor.  It's at page 230 and 231, is an agent check money order.
And so what it says on the front is
that --there's a picture of it, and it says on
the front that -- you know, that it's labeled
agent check money order.  And then, on the back, it says, if the instrument is designated on its face as a money order, then the following applies, and it says it's limited recourse.
Now, if you strike that off from the
back, then you might be -- then I think you are
fundamentally changing the nature of the document because you're making it now not a
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's not the
example I gave.
MR. KATYAL: --than Justice Thomas's
hypothetical.  So our view on this is generally labels will control.  In some circumstances, if you have the very same product, just not the label, then that is an other similar instrument.
But, for your question, which is
actually changing the meaning of the document itself, then that isn't one that is an other similar written instrument.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's what he
tried to do, correct?
MR. BRONNI: Correct.  I think, Your
Honor, that --that Judge Leval's approach made
sense in that, under any ordinary understanding of the term "money order" as the sources, Delaware's sources -- again, the ABA report on
money orders from the late 1950s, the Compton's Encyclopedia define money order. It include s
instruments sold by financial institutions, not in low-dollar amounts, and it includes
instruments like the agent check money order here.
And I think that is the -- when --
when Congress adopted the term "money order," it
Heritage Reporting Corporation
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  You haven't
answered my question.
MR. BRONNI: I -- I -- I think that it
--it meets any ordinary definition.  So I -- I
-- I don't think that it does any harm to define
it that way.  I know they present -- we started
with a parade of horribles, for instance --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Do we do less
parade of horribles if we define it your way? Because you take care of cashier's checks and, I presume, certified checks by calling them a prepaid -- a prepaid draft, correct?
MR. BRONNI: Correct.  I -- the reason
why I struggle with this is -- is I think both
things are -- are sort of -- neither one does that much harm because, again, they're alluding to this possibility of a parade of horribles, but they don't point to anything that would present that --that parade of horribles. You
know, cashier's checks, even if you --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, you waited
how long to sue?  They're afraid of all the guys who are going to come after -- come and sue now.
And they have good reason to worry because, once
Heritage Reporting Corporation