We'll hear argument next in Case -, Students for Fair Admissions versus the President and Fellows of Harvard College. Mr. Norris. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CAMERON T. NORRIS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERWould you have any objection if you do not ask candidates for admission to -- to check a box, what their race is, but you are allowed to take into consideration what an applicant would say in an -- in an essay about having to confront discrimination growing up and how he or she did that. You are allowed to take in consideration what a faculty recommender said. You know, one of the things that, you know, this applicant would bring is how to deal with racial discrimination in an area or in a school where he's part of a very small minority. Is there any -- do you have any objection to that sort of introduction of -- of race on behalf of a particular applicant?Thank you, counsel. Justice Thomas?Justice Alito?Anything further, Justice Kagan? Justice Kavanaugh?Justice Barrett?Thank you, counsel. Mr. Waxman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTJustice -- Justice Alito would like to ask a question.Thank you, counsel.We'll get to you in a moment. There's been a lot of talk about African American applicants to Harvard in sort of a general indistinguishable way when, in fact, they cover a very broad swath of -- of applicants.What do you do with respect to an African American applicant? I mean, you're concerned about diversity of viewpoint. Let's say his viewpoints tend to be very close to, you know, the white applicants, he grew up in Grosse Point, you know, had a great upbringing, comfortable, his parents went to Harvard, he's a legacy, and yet, under your system, when he checks African American, he gets a -- a tip. He gets a benefit from that. Isn't that ---- isn't that very stereotypical on -- under the Harvard program?I can't see it because it's far away. But, I mean -- (Laughter.)-- it is not zero.Well, so there's only a little racial discrimination in the case.Well, isn't that ---- isn't that what is -- Mr. Waxman, isn't that what the case is about, the discrimination against Asian Americans? 