Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court. This case concerns a nagging question about the outer reaches of the Clean Water Act (CWA), the principal federal M. Masslon II; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America by Elbert Lin, Kerry L. McGrath, Erica N. Peterson, and An- drew R. Varcoe; for Congressional Western Caucus Members by Tyler R. Green; for Duarte Nursery, Inc., by Timothy Kassouni; for Farm Bureau of Arkansas et al. by Michael B. Kimberly, Kari E. Fisher, Chad Endsley, Leah Curtis, Amy Milam, and Christina L. Gruenhagen; for Forestry Organizations by David Y. Chung, Elizabeth B. Dawson, and William R. Murray; for Fourteen National Agricultural Organizations by Timothy S. Bishop, Brett E. Legner, Ellen Steen, Travis Cushman, and Michael C. Formica; for Freeport-McMoRan Inc. by Jeremy C. Marwell and James T. Dawson; for the Liberty Justice Center by Daniel R. Suhr; for the National Stone, Sand and Gravel Association et al. by Lawrence R. Liebes- man and Nick Goldstein; for the Savannah Economic Development Au- thority et al. by Misha Tseytlin, Anna Wildeman, and Byron Kirkpat- rick; for the Southeastern Legal Foundation by Jennifer A. Simon and Kimberly S. Hermann; and for Sen. Shelley Moore Capito et al. by Thomas M. Johnson, Jr. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Colorado by Philip J. Weiser, Attorney General of Colorado, Eric R. Olson, Solicitor General, Carrie Noteboom, First Assistant Attorney Gen- eral, and Annette M. Quill and Jennifer Hunt, Senior Assistant Attorneys General; for the State of New York et al. by Letitia James, Attorney General of New York, Barbara D. Underwood, Solicitor General, Judith N. Vale, Deputy Solicitor General, and Mark S. Grube, Assistant Solicitor General, by Matthew J. Platkin, Acting Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Rob Bonta of California, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of Delaware, Karl A. Racine of the District of Columbia, Holly T. Shikada of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Maura Healey of Massachusetts, Keith Ellison of Min- nesota, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Joshua H. Stein of North Caro- lina, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Thomas J. Donovan, Jr., of Vermont, Robert W. Ferguson of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for the American Sustainable Business Network et al. by Benjamin D. Bat- tles, Max E. Rodriguez, and Alison Borochoff-Porte; for the Constitutional Accountability Center by Elizabeth B. Wydra and Brianne J. Gorod; for Environmental and Community Organizations by Nicholas S. Torrey, Catherine M. Rahm, and Ian Fein; for Former EPA Administrators by Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court law regulating water pollution in the United States. By all accounts, the Act has been a great success. Before its enactment in , many of the Nation's rivers, lakes, and streams were severely polluted, and existing federal legisla- tion had proved to be inadequate. Today, many formerly fetid bodies of water are safe for the use and enjoyment of the people of this country. There is, however, an unfortunate footnote to this success story: the outer boundaries of the Act's geographical reach have been uncertain from the start. The Act applies to “the waters of the United States,” but what does that phrase mean? Does the term encompass any backyard that is soggy enough for some minimum period of time? Does it reach “mudfats, sandfats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie pot- Beth S. Brinkmann, Gary S. Guzy, and Eric Chung; for the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin et al. by Janette K. Brimmer and Jill E. Grant; for Outdoor Recreation and Conservation Organizations by Jennifer S. Windom; for Public Citizen by Scott L. Nelson and Allison M. Zieve; for the Waterkeeper Alliance et al. by Anna-Rose Mathieson, Kelly Hunter Foster, and Eric J. Buescher; for Water Resource Management Organiza- tions by Caitlin J. Halligan; and for U. S. Members of Congress by Sara A. Colangelo. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Atlantic Legal Foundation et al. by Lawrence S. Ebner and Nancie G. Marzulla; for the Claremont Insti- tute's Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence by John C. Eastman and Anthony T. Caso; for the Idaho Conservation League by Caleb Jaffe; for the National Association of Clean Water Agencies by Alexandra Dapolito Dunn, Thomas C. Jackson, and Stephanie F. Cagniart; for the National Association of Counties et al. by Roderick E. Walston, J. G. Andre Mo- nette, and Lisa Soronen; for the National Association of Home Builders of the United States by Thomas J. Ward and Jeffrey B. Augello; for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association et al. by Scott Yager; for the Prop- erty and Environment Research Center by Jonathan Wood; for Scientifc Societies by Royal C. Gardner, Stephanie Tai, Henry Weisburg, Kathleen E. Gardner, and Erin Okuno; for the Western Urban Water Coalition by Meredith Weinberg; and for the Wyoming Stock Growers Association et al. by Karen Budd-Falen. Stat. , as amended, U. S. C. § et seq. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court holes, wet meadows, [or] playa lakes”? How about ditches, swimming pools, and puddles? For more than a half century, the agencies responsible for enforcing the Act have wrestled with the problem and adopted varying interpretations. On three prior occasions, this Court has tried to clarify the meaning of “the waters of the United States.” But the problem persists. When we last addressed the question years ago, we were unable to agree on an opinion of the Court. Today, we return to the problem and attempt to identify with greater clarity what the Act means by “the waters of the United States.” I A For most of this Nation's history, the regulation of water pollution was left almost entirely to the States and their sub- divisions. The common law permitted aggrieved parties to bring nuisance suits against polluters. But as industrial production and population growth increased the quantity and toxicity of pollution, States gradually shifted to enforcement by regulatory agencies. Conversely, federal regulation was largely limited to ensuring that “traditional navigable wa- ters”—that is, interstate waters that were either navigable in fact and used in commerce or readily susceptible of being used in this way—remained free of impediments. See, e. g., Rivers and Harbors Act of , Stat. ; see also United States v. Appalachian Elec. Power Co., U. S. , – (); The Daniel Ball, Wall. , (). CFR § .(s)() (). See Rapanos v. United States, U. S. (). Neither party contends that any opinion in Rapanos controls. We agree. See Nichols v. United States, U. S. , – (). See N. Hines, Nor Any Drop To Drink: Public Regulation of Water Quality, Iowa L. Rev. , – (). Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court Congress's early efforts at directly regulating water pol- lution were tepid. Although the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of allowed federal offcials to seek judicial abatement of pollution in interstate waters, it imposed high hurdles, such as requiring the consent of the State where the pollution originated. See Stat. –. Despite repeated amendments over the next two decades, few ac- tions were brought under this framework. Congress eventually replaced this scheme in with the CWA. See Stat. . The Act prohibits “the discharge of any pollutant” into “navigable waters.” U. S. C. §§ (a), ()(A). It broadly defnes the term “ `pol- lutant' ” to include not only contaminants like “chemical wastes,” but also more mundane materials like “rock, sand,” and “cellar dirt.” § (). The CWA is a potent weapon. It imposes what have been described as “crushing” consequences “even for inadvertent violations.” Army Corps of Engineers v. Hawkes Co., U. S. , () (Kennedy, J., concurring). Property owners who negligently discharge “pollutants” into covered waters may face severe criminal penalties including impris- onment. § (c). These penalties increase for knowing violations. Ibid. On the civil side, the CWA imposes over $, in fnes per day for each violation. See Note follow- ing U. S. C. § ; U. S. C. § (d); Fed. Reg. () (to be codifed in CFR § .). And due to the Act's -year statute of limitations, U. S. C. § , and expansive interpretations of the term “violation,” these civil penalties can be nearly as crushing as their criminal counterparts, see, e. g., Borden Ranch Partnership v. United States Army Corps of Engineers, F. d , , (CA ) (up- holding Agency decision to count each of passes of a plow See Hearings on Activities of the Federal Water Pollution Control Ad- ministration before the Subcommittee on Air and Water Pollution of the Senate Committee on Public Works, th Cong., st Sess., () (re- porting only one abatement suit between and ). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court by a farmer through “jurisdictional” soil on his farm as a separate violation), aff 'd by an equally divided Court, U. S. () (per curiam). The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) jointly enforce the CWA. The EPA is tasked with policing violations after the fact, either by issuing orders demanding compliance or by bringing civil actions. § (a). The Act also authorizes private plaintiffs to sue to enforce its requirements. § (a). On the front end, both agencies are empowered to issue permits exempting activity that would otherwise be unlawful under the Act. Relevant here, the Corps con- trols permits for the discharge of dredged or fll material into covered waters. See § (a). The costs of obtaining such a permit are “signifcant,” and both agencies have ad- mitted that “the permitting process can be arduous, expen- sive, and long.” Hawkes Co., U. S., at –, . Success is also far from guaranteed, as the Corps has as- serted discretion to grant or deny permits based on a long, nonexclusive list of factors that ends with a catchall mandate to consider “in general, the needs and welfare of the people.” CFR § .(a)() (). Due to the CWA's capacious defnition of “pollutant,” its low mens rea, and its severe penalties, regulated parties have focused particular attention on the Act's geographic scope. While its predecessor encompassed “interstate or navigable waters,” U. S. C. § (a) ( ed.), the CWA prohibits the discharge of pollutants into only “navigable wa- ters,” which it defnes as “the waters of the United States, including the territorial seas,” U. S. C. §§ (a), (), ()(A) ( ed.). The meaning of this defnition is the persistent problem that we must address. B Michael and Chantell Sackett have spent well over a dec- ade navigating the CWA, and their voyage has been bumpy Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court and costly. In , they purchased a small lot near Priest Lake, in Bonner County, Idaho. In preparation for building a modest home, they began backflling their property with dirt and rocks. A few months later, the EPA sent the Sack- etts a compliance order informing them that their backflling violated the CWA because their property contained pro- tected wetlands. The EPA demanded that the Sacketts immediately “ `undertake activities to restore the Site' ” pur- suant to a “ `Restoration Work Plan' ” that it provided. Sackett v. EPA, U. S. , (). The order threat- ened the Sacketts with penalties of over $, per day if they did not comply. At the time, the EPA interpreted “the waters of the United States” to include “[a]ll . . . waters” that “could affect interstate or foreign commerce,” as well as “[w]etlands ad- jacent” to those waters. CFR §§ .(s)(), () (). “[A]djacent” was defned to mean not just “bordering” or “contiguous,” but also “neighboring.” § .(b). Agency guidance instructed offcials to assert jurisdiction over wet- lands “adjacent” to non-navigable tributaries when those wetlands had “a signifcant nexus to a traditional navigable water.” A “signifcant nexus” was said to exist when “ `wetlands, either alone or in combination with similarly sit- uated lands in the region, signifcantly affect the chemical, physical, and biological integrity' ” of those waters. Guidance (emphasis added). In looking for evidence of a “signifcant nexus,” feld agents were told to consider a wide range of open-ended hydrological and ecological factors. See id., at . According to the EPA, the “wetlands” on the Sacketts' lot are “adjacent to” (in the sense that they are in the same neighborhood as) what it described as an “unnamed tribu- tary” on the other side of a -foot road. App. . That EPA & Corps, Clean Water Act Jurisdiction Following the U. S. Su- preme Court's Decision in Rapanos v. United States & Carabell v. United States – () ( Guidance). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tributary feeds into a non-navigable creek, which, in turn, feeds into Priest Lake, an intrastate body of water that the EPA designated as traditionally navigable. To establish a signifcant nexus, the EPA lumped the Sacketts' lot together with the Kalispell Bay Fen, a large nearby wetland complex that the Agency regarded as “similarly situated.” Accord- ing to the EPA, these properties, taken together, “signif- cantly affect” the ecology of Priest Lake. Therefore, the EPA concluded, the Sacketts had illegally dumped soil and gravel onto “the waters of the United States.” The Sacketts fled suit under the Administrative Proce- dure Act, U. S. C. § et seq., alleging that the EPA lacked jurisdiction because any wetlands on their property were not “waters of the United States.” The District Court initially dismissed the suit, reasoning that the compliance order was not a fnal agency action, but this Court ultimately held that the Sacketts could bring their suit under the APA. See Sackett, U. S., at . After seven years of additional proceedings on remand, the District Court entered sum- mary judgment for the EPA. WL (D Idaho, Mar. , ). The Ninth Circuit affrmed, holding that the CWA covers adjacent wetlands with a signifcant nexus to traditional navigable waters and that the Sacketts' lot satis- fed that standard. F. th , – (). We granted certiorari to decide the proper test for deter- mining whether wetlands are “waters of the United States.” U. S. ––– (). II A In defning the meaning of “the waters of the United States,” we revisit what has been “a contentious and diffcult task.” National Assn. of Mfrs. v. Department of Defense, U. S. , – (). The phrase has sparked dec- ades of agency action and litigation. In order to resolve the CWA's applicability to wetlands, we begin by reviewing this history. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court The EPA and the Corps initially promulgated different in- terpretations of “the waters of the United States.” The EPA defned its jurisdiction broadly to include, for example, intrastate lakes used by interstate travelers. Fed. Reg. (). Conversely, the Corps, consistent with its historical authority to regulate obstructions to navigation, asserted jurisdiction over only traditional navigable waters. Fed. Reg. (). But the Corps' narrow defnition did not last. It soon promulgated new, much broader def- nitions designed to reach the outer limits of Congress's com- merce power. See Fed. Reg. , and n. (); Fed. Reg. – (). Eventually the EPA and Corps settled on materially iden- tical defnitions. See Fed. Reg. (); Fed. Reg. – (). These broad defnitions encompassed “[a]ll . . . waters” that “could affect interstate or foreign com- merce.” CFR § .(s)() (). So long as the poten- tial for an interstate effect was present, the regulation ex- tended the CWA to, for example, “intrastate lakes, rivers, streams (including intermittent streams), mudfats, sandfats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes, or natural ponds.” Ibid. The agencies likewise took an expansive view of the CWA's coverage of wetlands “adja- cent” to covered waters. § .(s)(). As noted, they de- fned “adjacent” to mean “bordering, contiguous, or neigh- boring” and clarifed that “adjacent” wetlands include those that are separated from covered waters “by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes, and the like.” § .(b). They also specifed that “wetlands” is a technical term encompassing “those areas that are inundated or satu- rated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration suffcient to support, and that under normal conditions do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.” § .(t). The Corps released what would become a -page manual to guide of- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court fcers when they determine whether property meets this defnition. This Court frst construed the meaning of “the waters of the United States” in United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. (). There, we were con- fronted with the Corps' assertion of authority under the CWA over wetlands that “actually abut[ted] on a navigable waterway.” Id., at . Although we expressed concern that wetlands seemed to fall outside “traditional notions of `waters,' ” we nonetheless deferred to the Corps, reason- ing that “the transition from water to solid ground is not- necessarily or even typically an abrupt one.” Id., at –. The agencies responded to Riverside Bayview by expand- ing their interpretations even further. Most notably, they issued the “migratory bird rule,” which extended jurisdiction to any waters or wetlands that “are or would be used as [a] habitat” by migratory birds or endangered species. See Fed. Reg. (); Fed. Reg. (). As the Corps would later admit, “nearly all waters were jurisdic- tional under the migratory bird rule.” In Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers, U. S. () (SWANCC), this Court rejected the migratory bird rule, which the Corps had used to assert jurisdiction over several isolated ponds lo- cated wholly within the State of Illinois. Disagreeing with the Corps' argument that ecological interests supported its jurisdiction, we instead held that the CWA does not “ex- See Corps, Wetlands Delineation Manual (Tech. Rep. Y––, ) (Wetlands Delineation Manual); see also, e. g., Corps, Regional Supplement to the Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Alaska Region (Version .) (ERDC/EL Tr––, ). GAO, Waters and Wetlands: Corps of Engineers Needs To Evaluate Its District Offce Practices in Determining Jurisdiction (GAO––, ) (GAO Report). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court ten[d] to ponds that are not adjacent to open water.” Id., at (emphasis deleted). Days after our decision, the agencies issued guidance that sought to minimize SWANCC's impact. They took the view that this Court's holding was “strictly limited to waters that are `nonnavigable, isolated, and intrastate' ” and that “feld staff should continue to exercise CWA jurisdiction to the full extent of their authority” for “any waters that fall outside of that category.” The agencies never defned exactly what they regarded as the “full extent of their authority.” They instead encouraged local feld agents to make decisions on a case-by-case basis. What emerged was a system of “vague” rules that de- pended on “locally developed practices.” GAO Report . Deferring to the agencies' localized decisions, lower courts blessed an array of expansive interpretations of the CWA's reach. See, e. g., United States v. Deaton, F. d , (CA ) (holding that a property owner violated the CWA by piling soil near a ditch miles from navigable waters). Within a few years, the agencies had “interpreted their juris- diction over `the waters of the United States' to cover - to- million acres” of wetlands and “virtually any parcel of land containing a channel or conduit . . . through which rain- water or drainage may occasionally or intermittently fow.” Rapanos v. United States, U. S. , () (plural- ity opinion). It was against this backdrop that we granted review in Rapanos v. United States. The lower court in the principal case before us had held that the CWA covered wetlands near ditches and drains that eventually emptied into navigable waters at least miles away, a theory that had supported the petitioner's conviction in a related prosecution. Id., at , . Although we vacated that decision, no position commanded a majority of the Court. Four Justices con- EPA & Corps, Memorandum, Supreme Court Ruling Concerning CWA Jurisdiction Over Isolated Waters () (alteration omitted). Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court cluded that the CWA's coverage did not extend beyond two categories: first, certain relatively permanent bodies of water connected to traditional interstate navigable waters and, second, wetlands with such a close physical connection to those waters that they were “as a practical matter indis- tinguishable from waters of the United States.” Id., at , (emphasis deleted). Four Justices would have deferred to the Government's determination that the wetlands at issue were covered under the CWA. Id., at (Stevens, J., dissenting). Finally, one Justice concluded that jurisdiction under the CWA requires a “signifcant nexus” between wet- lands and navigable waters and that such a nexus exists where “the wetlands, either alone or in combination with similarly situated lands in the region, signifcantly affect the chemical, physical, and biological integrity” of those waters. Id., at – (Kennedy, J.,