Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the Court. In many States, a convicted prisoner who still disputes his guilt may ask state courts to order post-conviction DNA testing of evidence. If the prisoner's request fails in the state courts and he then fles a federal U. S. C. § pro- cedural due process suit challenging the constitutionality of the state process, when does the statute of limitations for that § suit begin to run? The Eleventh Circuit has held that the statute of limitations begins to run at the end of the state-court litigation denying DNA testing, including the state-court appeal. See Van Poyck v. McCollum, F. d , (). In this case, by contrast, the Fifth Circuit held that the statute of limitations begins to run when the state trial court denied DNA testing, notwithstanding a sub- sequent state-court appeal. See F. d , (). We conclude that the statute of limitations begins to run at the end of the state-court litigation. I In , Stacey Stites was strangled to death in Bastrop County, Texas. The State charged Rodney Reed with mur- for the Law Enforcement Action Partnership et al. by Jim Davy; for the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, Inc., by Janai Nelson, Sam Spital, and Adam Murphy; for the National Association of Criminal De- fense Lawyers et al. by Barbara E. Bergman, Clark M. Neily III, Jay R. Schweikert, John W. Whitehead, Sean M. SeLegue, and David D. Cole; and for Texas Exonerees et al. by Craig E. Stewart. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Montana et al. by Austin Knudsen, Attorney General of Montana, David M. S. Dewhirst, Solicitor General, and Kathleen L. Smithgall, Assistant Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Steve Marshall of Alabama, Treg Taylor of Alaska, Leslie Rut- ledge of Arkansas, Lawrence Wasden of Idaho, Jeff Landry of Louisiana, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi, John M. O'Connor of Oklahoma, Alan Wilson of South Carolina, and Sean D. Reyes of Utah. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Chase Baumgartner by Michael L. Ware; and for Fred Smith, Jr., by Gregory Dubinsky. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court dering Stites. At trial, Reed claimed that he was innocent and that Stites's fancé or another acquaintance had com- mitted the murder. A jury rejected that defense theory and found Reed guilty. Reed was sentenced to death. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals affrmed the conviction and death sentence. Reed's state and federal habeas petitions were unsuccessful. Then in , Reed fled a motion in state court under Texas's post-conviction DNA testing law. See Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Arts. .–. (Vernon ). Reed re- quested DNA testing on more than pieces of evidence, including the belt used to strangle Stites. Reed contended that DNA testing would help identify the true perpetrator. The state prosecutor, respondent Bryan Goertz, agreed to test several pieces of evidence, but otherwise opposed the motion and refused to test most of the evidence. The state trial court denied Reed's motion. The court reasoned in part that (i) many items Reed sought to test— including the belt—were not preserved through an adequate chain of custody and (ii) Reed did not demonstrate that he would have been acquitted if the DNA results were exculpa- tory. On appeal, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals af- frmed the trial court and later denied Reed's motion for rehearing. Reed next sued in federal court under U. S. C. § , asserting that Texas's post-conviction DNA testing law failed to provide procedural due process. Among other things, Reed argued that the law's stringent chain-of-custody requirement was unconstitutional and in effect foreclosed DNA testing for individuals convicted before “rules govern- ing the State's handling and storage of evidence were put in place.” App. . The U. S. District Court for the Western District of Texas dismissed Reed's complaint. The U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affrmed on the ground that Reed's § suit was fled too late, after the applicable -year statute of Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Opinion of the Court limitations had run. The Fifth Circuit ruled that the stat- ute of limitations began to run when the Texas trial court denied Reed's motion (which occurred more than two years before Reed fled his § suit in federal court), not when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied rehearing. Because the federal Courts of Appeals disagree about when the statute of limitations begins to run for a § suit regarding a State's post-conviction DNA testing procedures, we granted certiorari. U. S. ––– (). II Texas raises three threshold arguments. First, Texas argues that Reed lacks standing. We dis- agree. Reed suffciently alleged an injury in fact: denial of access to the requested evidence. The state prosecutor, who is the named defendant, denied access to the evidence and thereby caused Reed's injury. And if a federal court con- cludes that Texas's post-conviction DNA testing procedures violate due process, that court order would eliminate the state prosecutor's justifcation for denying DNA testing. It is “substantially likely” that the state prosecutor would abide by such a court order. Utah v. Evans, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). In other words, in “terms of our `standing' precedent, the courts would have ordered a change in a legal status,” and “the practical consequence of that change would amount to a sig- nifcant increase in the likelihood” that the state prosecutor would grant access to the requested evidence and that Reed therefore “would obtain relief that directly redresses the in- jury suffered.” Ibid. Second, Texas invokes the State's sovereign immunity. But the Ex parte Young doctrine allows suits like Reed's for declaratory or injunctive relief against state offcers in their offcial capacities. U. S. , – (). Third, Texas contends that Reed's procedural due process claim contravenes the Rooker-Feldman doctrine. See Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co., U. S. (); District of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman, U. S. (). That doctrine prohibits federal courts from adjudicating cases brought by state-court losing parties challenging state- court judgments. But as this Court explained in Skinner v. Switzer, even though a “state-court decision is not review- able by lower federal courts,” a “statute or rule governing the decision may be challenged in a federal action.” U. S. , (). Here, as in Skinner, Reed does “not challenge the adverse” state-court decisions themselves, but rather “targets as unconstitutional the Texas statute they authoritatively construed.” Ibid. III This Court's case law “severely limits the federal action a state prisoner may bring for DNA testing.” Skinner v. Switzer, U. S. , (). The Court has “rejected the extension of substantive due process to this area, and left slim room for the prisoner to show that the governing state law denies him procedural due process.” Ibid. (cita- tion omitted); see District Attorney's Offce for Third Judi- cial Dist. v. Osborne, U. S. , , (). Seeking to ft his § suit within the “slim room” left by this Court's precedent, Reed raised a procedural due process challenge to Texas's post-conviction DNA testing law. The sole question now before this Court is whether Reed's § suit was timely. The parties agree that the statute of limi- tations for Reed's claim is two years. But the parties dis- agree about when that -year limitations period began to run. That question is one of federal law. See Wallace v. Kato, U. S. , (). As a general matter, the statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff has a “complete and present cause of action.” Bay Area Laundry and Dry Cleaning Pension Trust Fund v. Ferbar Corp. of Cal., U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). To determine when a Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Opinion of the Court plaintiff has a complete and present cause of action, the Court focuses frst on the specifc constitutional right alleged to have been infringed. See McDonough v. Smith, U. S. –––, ––– (). Here, the specifc constitutional right allegedly infringed is procedural due process. A procedural due process claim consists of two elements: (i) deprivation by state action of a protected interest in life, liberty, or property, and (ii) inade- quate state process. See Zinermon v. Burch, U. S. , (). Importantly, the Court has stated that a proce- dural due process claim “is not complete when the depriva- tion occurs.” Id., at . Rather, the claim is “complete” only when “the State fails to provide due process.” Ibid. Reed contends that the State's process for considering his DNA testing request was fundamentally unfair in violation of the Due Process Clause. Texas's process for considering a request for DNA testing in capital cases includes not only trial court proceedings, but also appellate review by the Court of Criminal Appeals. Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. .. And under longstanding Texas rules of appellate procedure, the Court of Criminal Appeals's appellate review process encompasses a motion for rehearing. Tex. Rule App. Proc. . (). In Reed's case, the State's alleged failure to provide Reed with a fundamentally fair process was complete when the state litigation ended and deprived Reed of his asserted liberty interest in DNA testing. Therefore, Reed's § claim was complete and the statute of limitations began to run when the state litigation ended—when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied Reed's motion for rehearing. The soundness of that straightforward conclusion is “rein- forced by the consequences that would follow” from a con- trary approach. McDonough, U. S., at –––. If the stat- ute of limitations for a § suit like Reed's began to run after a state trial court's denial of a plaintiff 's motion for DNA testing (or even after the appeal before the plaintiff's Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting rehearing proceedings), the plaintiff would likely continue to pursue relief in the state system and simultaneously fle a protective federal § suit challenging that ongoing state process. That parallel litigation would “run counter to core principles of federalism, comity, consistency, and judicial economy.” Id., at –––. We see no good reason for such senseless duplication. Moreover, signifcant systemic benefts ensue from start- ing the statute of limitations clock when the state litigation in DNA testing cases like Reed's has concluded. If any due process faws lurk in the DNA testing law, the state appellate process may cure those faws, thereby rendering a federal § suit unnecessary. And if the state appellate court construes the DNA testing statute, that construction will streamline and focus subsequent § proceedings. In sum, when a prisoner pursues state post-conviction DNA testing through the state-provided litigation process, the statute of limitations for a § procedural due proc- ess claim begins to run when the state litigation ends. In Reed's case, the statute of limitations began to run when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied Reed's motion for rehearing. Reed's § claim was timely. We reverse the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. It is so ordered. Justice Thomas, dissenting. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals (CCA) affrmed the denial of petitioner Rodney Reed's state-law motion for post- According to Reed, a plaintiff may forgo full appellate review in the state-court system and still bring a procedural due process suit challeng- ing a State's post-conviction DNA testing law. See Tr. of Oral Arg. –. As this Court indicated in District Attorney's Offce for Third Judicial Dist. v. Osborne, it may be “diffcult” as a practical matter “to criticize the State's procedures when [the prisoner] has not invoked them.” U. S. , (). In any event, we need not address that hypothetical scenario. Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting conviction DNA testing. Reed petitioned this Court for cer- tiorari, arguing that the CCA's interpretation and applica- tion of the relevant state law violated his federal due process rights. After we denied his petition, Reed repackaged it as a complaint in Federal District Court, naming respondent (the Bastrop County District Attorney) as a placeholder de- fendant. Like his earlier certiorari petition, Reed's com- plaint assails the CCA's state-law reasoning as inconsis- tent with due process, and it seeks a declaration that the CCA's interpretation and application of state law was unconstitutional. Reed's action should be dismissed for lack of subject- matter jurisdiction. Federal district courts lack appellate jurisdiction to review state-court judgments, and Reed's action presents no original Article III case or controversy between him and the district attorney. Because the Court erroneously holds that the District Court had jurisdiction over Reed's action, I respectfully dissent. I A On April , , -year-old Stacey Stites failed to re- port for her : a.m. shift at the H.E.B. grocery store in Bastrop, Texas. The truck Stites drove to work was found abandoned in the Bastrop High School parking lot a couple of hours later. That afternoon, a passerby discovered Stites' body in a ditch by a country road, her clothing disturbed in a manner suggesting sexual violence. Medical examiners determined that Stites had been strangled to death with her own belt, which was found in two pieces—one near the truck, the other near Stites' body. There was semen in Stites' va- gina and rectum and saliva on her breasts. The police con- cluded that Stites had been raped and murdered. Despite a wide-ranging investigation, the police were ini- tially unable to fnd a DNA match for the bodily fuids recov- ered from Stites' corpse. Then, about six months after Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting Stites' death, Reed was arrested for kidnaping and attempt- ing to rape and murder another young woman near the route Stites typically took to work and around the same time of night when Stites had gone missing. Reed lived near the high school and was often seen walking the surrounding area at night. Intrigued, the police checked Reed's DNA profle, which Texas had on fle from an earlier sexual-assault case against him. A series of tests established a conclusive, one- in-the-world-population match between Reed and the fuids recovered from Stites' corpse. When frst questioned, Reed insisted that he did not know Stites at all, unaware that the police had DNA evidence dis- proving that claim. By the time of his trial, he had changed his story: He and Stites were having a consensual affair, and someone else—perhaps her jealous fancé—had committed the murder. The jury rejected that post hoc narrative and found Reed guilty. In the separate penalty phase, Reed's kidnaping victim testifed about how Reed had abducted, threatened, and attempted to rape her before she was fortu- itously able to escape. Four other women—and one under- age girl—also testifed that Reed had brutally beaten and raped them in the past. Reed was sentenced to death. The CCA affrmed Reed's conviction and sentence in . In the years since, he has kept up a constant stream of postconviction flings asserting his innocence. Every few years, Reed's lawyers have produced a new theory and a new purportedly exculpatory affdavit. With the patience of Job, the Texas courts have duly considered them all. On one such occasion, the CCA noted “the complete lack of a cohe- sive theory of innocence” across Reed's unending series of attempts to relitigate his guilt. Ex parte Reed, S. W. d , (). One example encapsulates the meritlessness of those attempts. In one of his many state postconviction proceedings, Reed submitted an affdavit from his own father, Walter, stating that an acquaintance had told him that he knew where Stites was the night she died. Reed submitted no Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting B In Texas, a convict has two distinct avenues to obtain post- conviction DNA testing of evidence—one executive and dis- cretionary, the other judicial and legal. As for the frst, the convict can attempt to reach an agreement with the district attorney, who has broad discretion to order or allow DNA testing. See Tr. of Oral Arg. –. In the case of the sec- ond, the convict can fle a motion under Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Arts. . through . (Vernon ) (Chapter ), which requires “the convicting court” to “order testing” if the movant establishes certain requirements. Ex parte Gutierrez, S. W. d , – (Tex. Crim. App. ). In , on the same day that the trial court held a hearing to set Reed's execution date, Reed fled a Chapter motion for DNA testing of a large number of items. The district attorney consented to test some of the items outside of the Chapter framework, but he otherwise opposed Reed's re- quest. The trial court denied the motion, fnding that Reed had not established two necessary elements for Chapter testing: () that he “would not have been convicted if excul- patory results had been obtained through DNA testing,” Art. .(a)()(A); and () that his Chapter motion was “not made to unreasonably delay the execution of sentence or administration of justice,” Art. .(a)()(B). Reed ap- pealed, and the CCA remanded for the trial court to address the other elements of the Chapter rubric. After making supplemental fndings, the trial court again denied Reed's motion, and Reed again appealed. In April , the CCA issued an opinion affrming the trial court. First, the CCA held that the record supported the trial court's fnding that many of the items had not “been affdavit from the acquaintance. The State then obtained an affdavit from the acquaintance, in which he swore that he “ `never told Walter Reed that I knew where Stacey Stites was on the night she was killed. All I ever told Walter was that Rodney Reed was a crackhead who raped girls on the [railroad] tracks. I have no idea where Stacey Stites was when she died.' ” S. W. d, at . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting subjected to a chain of custody suffcient to establish that [they had] not been substituted, tampered with, replaced, or altered in any material respect.” Art. .(a)()(A)(ii); see Reed v. State, S. W. d , –. Second, it held that Reed had not shown “a reasonable likelihood” that many of the items “contain[ed] biological material suitable for DNA testing.” Art. .(a)()(B); see S. W. d, at . Third, addressing only the items that survived the previous two holdings, the CCA held that Reed had not established that exculpatory results from DNA testing of those items would have prevented his conviction. See id., at –. Finally, the CCA held that Reed had failed to establish that his Chapter motion was not made for purposes of delay. See id., at –. The CCA noted that “Chapter had existed with only slight variations for over thirteen years at the time Reed fled his motion,” and that Reed's motion was suspiciously fled “on the same day the judge heard the State's motion to set an execution date.” Id., at . Reed moved for rehearing, arguing that the CCA had mis- applied the Chapter elements and asserting, in broad terms, that those errors violated his due process rights. See App. to Pet. for Cert. in Reed v. Texas, O. T. , No. –, pp. a–a. The CCA denied rehearing by sum- mary order in October . Reed then timely petitioned this Court for a writ of certio- rari to review the CCA's judgment. His petition contended that the CCA's judgment “violate[d his] due process rights” because it was based on “arbitrary and fundamentally un- fair interpretation[s]” of Chapter 's chain-of-custody and unreasonable-delay elements. Pet. for Cert. in No. –, pp. i–ii. We denied certiorari. See Reed v. Texas, U. S. ––– (). C In August , Reed sued the district attorney under Rev. Stat. § , U. S. C. § , in the U. S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. As relevant here, Reed's complaint alleges that he successfully “proved each Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting of the statutory requirements of [Chapter] ” in the state- court proceedings, App. , ¶, but that “the CCA's adop- tion of non-statutory criteria to preclude . . . Reed from test- ing key trial evidence to prove his innocence violate[d] fun- damental notions of fairness and denie[d] him due process of law,” id., at , ¶. Reed proceeds to allege “several ways” in which “[t]he CCA's interpretation and application of [Chapter] violate[d] fundamental fairness,” id., at , ¶, with particular focus on the CCA's allegedly arbitrary con- structions of the chain-of-custody, unreasonable-delay, and exculpatory-results elements, see id., at –, ¶¶–; – , ¶¶–. For relief, “Reed seeks a declaration that [Chapter] , as interpreted, construed and applied by the Texas courts to deny his motion for DNA testing, violates his rights under” the Constitution. Id., at , ¶; see also id., at (prayer for relief ). The district attorney moved to dismiss Reed's complaint for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction and for failure to state a claim. See Fed. Rules Civ. Proc. (b)() and (b)(). The District Court held that it had jurisdiction but dismissed Reed's complaint on the merits, concluding that Reed had alleged only “that he disagree[d] with the state court's con- struction of Texas law” and that none of the issues in the complaint “r[ose] to the level of a procedural due-process vio- lation.” WL , * (WD Tex., Nov. , ). The Fifth Circuit affrmed on the alternative ground that Reed's claim was untimely: Applying Texas' -year statute of limitations for personal-injury claims, it reasoned that Reed's due process claim accrued when the trial court frst denied his Chapter motion, rendering his complaint sev- eral years too late. F. d , (). II Two intertwined principles of federal jurisdiction—Article III standing and the Rooker-Feldman doctrine—mandate a See District of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman, U. S. (); Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co., U. S. (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting fnding that the District Court lacked jurisdiction over this action. The majority gives short shrift to these principles, and its holding that Reed's claim was timely serves only to underscore its antecedent jurisdictional errors. A The Constitution limits the federal courts' jurisdiction to “Cases” and “Controversies,” Art. III, § , cl. , constraining judicial power to “the determination of real, earnest and vital controvers[ies] between” contending litigants. Chi- cago & Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Wellman, U. S. , (). “[A]n essential and unchanging part of [this] case- or-controversy requirement” is the doctrine of Article III standing. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , (). Under that doctrine, any party requesting relief from a federal court must assert “an injury” that is “con- crete, particularized, and actual or imminent,” and he must show that his injury is both “fairly traceable to the chal- lenged action” and “redressable by a favorable ruling.” Monsanto Co. v. Geertson Seed Farms, U. S. , (); see also Town of Chester v. Laroe Estates, Inc., U. S. , – (). Absent that showing, the court has no jurisdiction and thus no “power to adjudicate the case.” Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, U. S. , () (emphasis deleted). Jurisdiction, moreover, comes in two types—original and appellate—and the application of the Article III standing el- ements is interwoven with that constitutionally grounded distinction. See Art. III, § , cl. . In an original case or controversy, the plaintiff traces his injury “to the defendant's allegedly unlawful conduct,” Allen v. Wright, U. S. , (), and, correspondingly, seeks a remedy that runs against the defendant and determines that defendant's duties or liabilities (e. g., a judgment for money damages or an in- junction). On the other hand, “[t]he criterion which distin- guishes appellate from original jurisdiction, is that it revises and corrects the decisions of another tribunal.” Ex parte Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting Bollman, Cranch , (); see also Marbury v. Madi- son, Cranch , – (). As such, a case or contro- versy is appellate in nature when the relief-seeking party's injury is traceable to the allegedly erroneous action of an- other court and requires a remedy correcting that judicial action (e. g., reversal or vacatur of the challenged judgment). See, e. g., Food Marketing Institute v. Argus Leader Media, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); Monsanto, U. S., at – . Thus, whenever a party seeks relief from a federal court, the elements that bring his claim within Article III in the frst place—the nature and source of his injury and the remedy needed to redress it—also dictate whether his claim invokes original or appellate jurisdiction. The conceptual distinction between original and appellate jurisdiction also animates the Rooker-Feldman doctrine— which, despite its name, is not so much a “doctrine” as a basic fact of federal statutory law. This Court has discretionary appellate jurisdiction to review certain state-court judg- ments by certiorari. U. S. C. § (a). But no other federal court has appellate jurisdiction over state-court judg- The limited exceptions to these generalizations only prove the rules. Appellate courts sometimes issue remedies that operate directly on the parties (e. g., injunctions pending appeal), but such remedies are “extra- ordinary” and appropriate only when “ `in aid of ' ” the court's primary ap- pellate jurisdiction. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc. v. Federal Election Comm'n, U. S. , – () (Rehnquist, C. J., in chambers) (quoting U. S. C. § (a) ( ed.)). And, while certain original reme- dies, like declaratory judgments and quiet title decrees, do not necessarily impose new duties on the losing defendant, they conclusively establish the parties' legal relations from which such duties fow. See Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, U. S. , – (). Signifcantly, this Court has long held that an action for declaratory relief alone implicates the same constitutional “case or controversy” as would an action for coer- cive relief involving the same parties and subject matter, see ibid., and that declaratory relief “cannot alone supply jurisdiction otherwise absent,” California v. Texas, U. S. –––, ––– (); see also R. Fallon, J. Man- ning, D. Meltzer, & D. Shapiro, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System (th ed. ). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting ments, and, in particular, “[t]he jurisdiction possessed by the District Courts is strictly original.” Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co., U. S. , (); see, e. g., U. S. C. § (“The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under [federal law]”). Thus, if the los- ing party in a state judicial proceeding “claim[s] that the state judgment itself violates [his] federal rights”—a claim that calls for an exercise of appellate jurisdiction—his only remedy in the federal system is certiorari in this Court. Johnson v. De Grandy, U. S. , (). He may not “see[k] what in substance would be appellate review of the state judgment” under the guise of an original action in federal district court. Id., at –; see also Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Saudi Basic Industries Corp., U. S. , – (); District of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman, U. S. , –, and nn. , (). Yet, that is precisely what Reed has done here. While his complaint purports to bring an original action against the district attorney, in reality, it seeks appellate review to re- dress an alleged injury inficted by the CCA's adverse de- cision “in [his] particular cas[e].” Id., at , n. . The gravamen of Reed's claim—made clear again and again throughout his complaint—is that the CCA violated his due process rights through its reasoning in his case. See, e. g., App. , ¶; –, ¶¶–; , ¶; –, ¶¶, ; , ¶; –, ¶¶–; –, ¶¶–. All of those alleged injuries are traceable to the CCA, not the district attorney. And, redressing them would require an exercise of appellate jurisdiction over the CCA—jurisdiction that the District Court does not have. Confrming the point, Reed's com- plaint does not ask the District Court to control the district attorney's actions at all. Instead, the only relief it requests is “[a] declaration that the CCA's interpretation and applica- tion of [Chapter] . . . is unconstitutional.” Id., at . The complaint transparently seeks nothing more than the Dis- trict Court's “review and rejection” of the CCA's judgment. Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting Exxon Mobil, U. S., at . As such, it founders upon the Rooker-Feldman doctrine as well as the Article III traceability and redressability requirements with which that doctrine is intertwined. Any doubt that Reed seeks de facto appellate review should be dispelled by one undisputed fact: Every due proc- ess violation that Reed alleges could have been considered on direct review of the CCA's judgment in this Court. After all, determining whether state-court judgments ap- plied unconstitutional constructions of state law is a classic use of this Court's appellate jurisdiction under § (a). See, e. g., Rogers v. Tennessee, U. S. , (); Bouie v. City of Columbia, U. S. , (); Brinkerhoff-Faris Trust & Sav. Co. v. Hill, U. S. , (). That is why Reed originally petitioned this Court for certiorari to review the CCA's judgment. And it is why he agreed at oral argument that we could have granted that petition. See Tr. of Oral Arg. –. Yet, even after repackaging his failed certiorari petition as an original § complaint, Reed not only concedes but affrmatively argues that his claim is analogous to the due process arguments presented in Rogers, Bouie, and Brinkerhoff-Faris. See Brief for Petitioner –. That he is correct on that front should be fatal to his complaint. Like the petitioners in those cases, Reed contends that the rules of decision applied against him in a state-court pro- ceeding violated his due process rights. Because those con- tentions would have been appropriate subjects for this Court's appellate review, it follows that Reed cannot press the same due process challenges and seek the same relief in an original action in the District Court. See Feldman, U. S., at –, and n. ; accord, id., at (Stevens, J., dissenting). In holding otherwise, the majority improperly separates the Rooker-Feldman and Article III inquiries and applies a different theory of Reed's claim to each. But, Reed's claim Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting must satisfy two conditions at once: It must implicate an Ar- ticle III case or controversy between the parties to this ac- tion, and that case or controversy must fall within the Dis- trict Court's “strictly original” jurisdiction. Rooker, U. S., at . The majority articulates no theory of how Reed's claim can satisfy both conditions. That is because there is no such theory. A useful way to view this is to work backwards from the majority's Rooker-Feldman holding. The majority accepts Reed's representation that he “does `not challenge the ad- verse' state-court decisions themselves,” but only “ `targets as unconstitutional the Texas statute [Chapter ] they au- thoritatively construed.' ” Ante, at (quoting Skinner v. Switzer, U. S. , ()). But this workaround to Rooker-Feldman raises a glaring Article III problem: As this Court has repeatedly explained, a federal court may not entertain a free-foating challenge to a statute unmoored from a concrete case or controversy. See, e. g., California v. Texas, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., U. S. , – (); Massachusetts v. Mellon, U. S. , (); Muskrat v. United States, U. S. , – (). Unless Reed merely seeks an advisory opinion, his due process challenge to Chapter must seek relief from some concrete enforcement or applica- tion of that law that affects him. More specifcally, Reed must be challenging either () some conduct of the district attorney constituting enforcement of Chapter against him or () the CCA's application of Chapter as a rule of de- cision in his case. If it is the former, Reed's suit is origi- I acknowledge that our most recent DNA-testing precedent, Skinner v. Switzer, U. S. (), contains loose language suggesting that Skinner's due process claim challenged neither “the [defendant] prosecu- tor's conduct [n]or the decisions reached by the CCA” in his case, but only “Texas' postconviction DNA statute `as construed' by the Texas courts.” Id., at . But, the majority surely cannot think that federal courts have Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting nal; if it is the latter, it requires an exercise of appellate jurisdiction. So, which is it? As already indicated, the correct answer is the latter: Fundamentally, Reed's complaint—like his cer- tiorari petition before it—contests how “the Texas courts” “interpreted, construed[,] and applied” Chapter “to deny his motion for DNA testing,” App. , ¶, which is why the only relief he requests is an abstract “declaration that the CCA's interpretation and application of [Chapter] . . . is unconstitutional.” Id., at . The idea that his claim “does not challenge the adverse state-court decisions,” ante, at (internal quotation marks omitted), cannot survive even a cursory examination of his complaint. See supra, at . Nor would the other possibility make any sense. Reed cannot be seeking relief from the district attorney's enforce- ment of Chapter , because the district attorney has not enforced that law against Reed at all. The sum total of the district attorney's relevant conduct is as follows. First, he declined to order Reed's desired testing in his executive dis- cretion, independent of Chapter . Next, when Reed asked the Texas courts to grant testing under Chapter , the dis- trict attorney opposed his motion. Finally, after Reed's mo- tion proved unsuccessful, the district attorney continued to subject-matter jurisdiction over challenges to statutes in the abstract, nor does Skinner actually stand for that proposition. Skinner's only jurisdic- tional holding was that the petitioner's claim was not barred by Rooker- Feldman. See U. S., at –. Skinner did not address Article III standing and thus has “ `no precedential effect' ” on that issue. Arbaugh v. Y & H Corp., U. S. , (). Yet, for the curious, Skinner's complaint did in fact allege that the defendant prosecutor was violating his due process rights through her conduct, and it expressly requested injunctive relief against her. See App. in Skinner v. Switzer, O. T. , No. –, pp. –, ¶¶–; –, ¶; , ¶. Thus, Skinner's claim as pleaded clearly was original in nature, but for precisely the same rea- sons that Reed's is not: Where Skinner claimed injury from and sought relief against the party whom he had sued, Reed claims injury from and seeks relief against an adverse judicial decision. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting decline to order Reed's desired testing. To say that this conduct amounts to enforcing Chapter makes as much sense as saying that a party to a discovery dispute, who de- feats a motion to compel, in effect, “enforces” the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure by continuing not to turn over the demanded documents. Again, any due process injury that Chapter has caused Reed is traceable to the CCA's judicial application of that law in his case, not to any executive acts or omissions of the district attorney. The majority permits Reed to evade that problem by fram- ing his Article III injury as the mere lack of access to his desired evidence, independent of any alleged due process de- nial. See ante, at . But, if framing Reed's injury that way helps with traceability, it only worsens his redressabil- ity problem. Suppose that the District Court accepted Reed's due process arguments and issued his requested re- lief: an abstract declaration that the interpretation of Chap- ter that the CCA applied in his case is unconstitutional. How, exactly, would that redress Reed's injury of not having the evidence tested? The CCA's Chapter judgment would remain untouched; Reed would have obtained an opin- ion disapproving its reasoning, but without any appellate “revis[ion] and correct[ion]” to disturb its fnality. Bollman, Cranch, at . Nor would a declaration that the CCA's construction of Chapter was unconstitutional imply any- thing about the district attorney's duties or liabilities. The majority asserts that such a declaration would cause “ `a signifcant increase in the likelihood' ” that the district attorney would grant Reed's desired testing. Ante, at (quoting Utah v. Evans, U. S. , ()). But the district attorney has made clear that he does not understand Reed's requested relief to “require any change in conduct” from him and that it is not “likely to bring about such change.” Brief for Respondent –. If the majority thinks the district attorney is wrong about that, it would only be fair to explain exactly what change in conduct would Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting be legally required of him if Reed prevailed on his due proc- ess claim. The majority fails to do so. Instead, it offers a number of vague pronouncements, all of which wilt under scrutiny. Consider the claim that Reed's victory in this action would “eliminate the [district attor- ney's] justifcation for denying DNA testing.” Ante, at . If this means that Reed's requested relief would entitle him to testing under Chapter , it is wrong because the CCA's unreversed judgment would stand as a fnal, binding deter- mination of Reed's Chapter rights even if the District Court were to declare that, in its opinion, the CCA had ap- plied that law unconstitutionally in Reed's case. Alterna- tively, if the majority means that the success of Reed's due process claim would require the district attorney to permit testing in his independent executive discretion, it is also wrong because Reed is not challenging the district attorney's denial of discretionary testing as unlawful—only the CCA's “interpretation and application of [Chapter] .” App. . The majority also misses the mark when it asserts that it is “substantially likely that the [district attorney] would abide by [Reed's requested] court order.” Ante, at (in- ternal quotation marks omitted). Again, the only “court order” Reed seeks is a declaration disapproving the legal un- derpinnings of the CCA's judgment. Such an “order” would have no bearing on the district attorney's future conduct; in a literal sense, there would be nothing for him to “abide by.” Finally, the majority says that the District Court “ `would have ordered a change in a legal status' ” were it to grant This failure will have troubling consequences if Reed's claim ever prog- resses beyond the pleading stage. To survive summary judgment, Reed cannot “rest on mere allegations, but must set forth by affdavit or other evidence specifc facts” showing that his requested relief will make it like- lier that he obtains the desired testing. Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, U. S. , () (alteration and internal quotation marks omitted). It is far from clear what such a showing would entail, and the majority leaves the parties in the dark. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting the declaration Reed seeks. Ibid. (quoting Utah, U. S., at ). The intended meaning of this statement is com- pletely obscure. The “status” that the majority has in mind cannot be that of Chapter itself. See California, U. S., at ––– (explaining that judicial remedies “ `operate with respect to specifc parties,' ” not “ `on legal rules in the ab- stract' ”); see also Mellon, U. S., at (explaining that courts “have no power per se to review and annul [statutes] on the ground that they are unconstitutional,” only “the neg- ative power to disregard an unconstitutional enactment” when “declaring the law applicable to [a justiciable] contro- versy”). Nor can the majority mean that the District Court could change the “status” of the CCA's judgment. In real- ity, the only way that the District Court could possibly help Reed obtain DNA testing is by directly controlling the dis- trict attorney's actions. But, again, Reed's complaint nei- ther requests nor sets forth a basis for any such relief. This case is thus very different from Utah v. Evans, U. S. (), on which the majority relies heavily (indeed, exclusively). There, as earlier in Franklin v. Massachusetts, U. S. (), we held that a State had standing to sue the Secretary of Commerce for injunctive and declaratory relief against an allegedly improper census report that would have diminished the State's congressional delegation. See Utah, U. S., at –; Franklin, U. S., at – (plurality opinion). In both cases, Justice Scalia argued in dissent that redressability was lacking because the causal link between the Secretary's preparation of a new re- port and redress of the States' apportionment injuries depended on the actions of other offcials not bound by the court's judgment. See Utah, U. S., at ; Franklin, U. S., at –. The Court answered that objection by “assum[ing]”—in large part because “the Solicitor Gen- eral ha[d] not contended to the contrary”—that it was “substantially likely” that those other offcials would cooperate with a judgment in the suing State's favor. Id., at (plurality opinion); see Utah, U. S., at –, –. Utah and Franklin thus represent nothing more than a context-specifc application of the settled rule that “standing is not pre- cluded” (although it is “more diffcult to establish”) when the connection between the defendant's court-ordered remedial conduct and ultimate re- dress of the plaintiff 's injury partly depends on the actions of third par- ties. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , () (internal Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting In sum, there is no getting around the essential problem with Reed's due process claim: To the extent he is not merely seeking an advisory opinion, he is complaining about a court- inficted injury, and redressing that injury would require an exercise of appellate jurisdiction that the District Court does not possess. In substance, his complaint in this action is a mere reprise of his prior certiorari petition, camoufaged as an original action against the district attorney. Thus, I would vacate the Fifth Circuit's judgment and remand this case to the District Court with instructions to dismiss the complaint for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. B The majority next holds that Reed's § due process claim was timely because it did not accrue until the CCA denied rehearing. The little reasoning the majority offers for this conclusion helpfully accentuates its antecedent juris- dictional errors. First, the majority points out that a procedural due proc- ess claim is not necessarily “ `complete when the deprivation occurs,' ” but “only when `the State fails to provide due proc- ess.' ” Ante, at (quoting Zinermon v. Burch, U. S. , ()). Yet, “the general rule” is that due process itself “requir[es] predeprivation notice and hearing,” so the truism for which the majority quotes Zinermon matters only in those “extraordinary situations” in which “[w]e toler- ate” postdeprivation process as suffcient. United States v. James Daniel Good Real Property, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted); see Zinermon, U. S., at –. The majority proceeds to show, however, that it does not regard this case as a postdeprivation case at all, quotation marks omitted). Here, by contrast, the majority fnds redress- ability in an abstract declaration—in truth, an advisory opinion—that would not require any change in conduct on the part of the only defendant in this case. Nothing in our precedents supports that holding. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting for it says that the State “deprived Reed of his asserted liberty interest in DNA testing” at the very moment when “the State's alleged failure to provide Reed with a fundamen- tally fair process was complete.” Ante, at . Given this understanding of Reed's claim, the “[i]mportan[t]” proposi- tion with which the majority begins its analysis is doctrinally irrelevant. Ibid. After that red herring, the majority engages in an obvious equivocation, confating the Chapter “process” that Reed challenges as “fundamentally unfair” with the Texas courts' generally applicable decisional procedures. Ibid. But of course, those procedures are not what Reed challenges. In- stead (and, again, exactly like the arguments in his prior certiorari petition), his due process claim “ `targets as uncon- stitutional' ” the substantive requirements of Chapter as construed. Ante, at . His claim plainly would be no dif- ferent if the CCA did not entertain rehearing motions. Still, the majority's confused accrual reasoning is useful for the added light that it shines on Reed's jurisdictional problems. As the majority says, a procedural due process claim has two elements: () a deprivation and () inadequate process. The majority then acknowledges that the state courts effectuated Reed's deprivation, and it treats the state courts' ordinary decisional mechanics as the allegedly inade- quate process. But, after both elements of Reed's claim are thus laid at the feet of the state courts, what role is left for the nominal defendant here, the district attorney? What part did he play in violating Reed's procedural due process rights, and what makes him a proper defendant to Reed's § claim? The majority has no answer. At bottom, its approval of Reed's claim is intelligible only upon the supposition that the district attorney may be sued as a mere stand-in for the State as a whole, such that Reed can urge against him the due process violations that the State allegedly committed through its courts. That is a profound mistake. True, the Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ Thomas, J., dissenting district attorney and the CCA are both state actors. But, States act in different ways through their different entities and offcers, and the nature of a challenged state action de- termines what federal-court remedy may be available. As this Court has explained, “[a] State acts by its legisla- tive, its executive, or its judicial authorities,” and “in no other way.” Ex parte Virginia, U. S. , (). The Due Process Clause applies to action through any of these agencies, ibid., but not every alleged due process viola- tion may be asserted in an original § action. By itself, a State's legislative enactment of an unconstitutional law does not give rise to a justiciable case or controversy. See California, U. S., at ––– – –––; Muskrat, U. S., at . Next, when a State allegedly violates due process through executive action, the aggrieved party may bring an original action for appropriate relief against the relevant executive offcer. See Mellon, U. S., at ; Ex parte Young, U. S. (). And, when a State allegedly violates due Young cautioned that, “[i]n making an offcer of the State a party defendant in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of an act alleged to be unconstitutional[,] it is plain that such offcer must have some connection with the enforcement of the act, or else it is merely making him a party as a representative of the State, and thereby attempting to make the State a party.” U. S., at (emphasis added). Invoking this language, the district attorney argues that Reed's suit is independently barred by state sovereign immunity, in addition to Article III and the Rooker-Feldman doctrine. It appears fairly debatable whether the “connection” requirement described in Young is best under- stood as a precondition to Young's sovereign-immunity exception or as a simple application of Article III traceability. Compare Okpalobi v. Fos- ter, F. d , – (CA ) (en banc) (plurality opinion) (taking the former view), with id., at (Benavides, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (arguing that “modern standing doctrine has subsumed the connection inquiry”). I see no need to tackle that question here, since Article III and Rooker-Feldman amply establish the jurisdictional impro- priety of Reed's suit. I add only that, on either interpretation, Young makes it clear that a state offcer cannot be sued “as a representative of the State” writ large—rather, he can only be sued for legal violations attributable to his own offce. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting process through its judicial actions—be it through the denial of a fundamentally fair judicial procedure or through the ap- plication of a rule of decision that itself violates due proc- ess—the remedy that Congress has provided is appellate “review of the [challenged] judgmen[t] in this Court.” Feld- man, U. S., at ; see, e. g., Rogers, U. S., at ; Bouie, U. S., at ; Brinkerhoff-Faris, U. S., at ; cf. Stop the Beach Renourishment, Inc. v. Florida Dept. of Environmental Protection, U. S. () (reviewing judicial-taking claim on certiorari to the challenged state- court judgment). But, if that remedy proves unsuccessful— as it did for Reed—the aggrieved party cannot simply substi- tute an executive offcer as a defendant, charge the state court's errors to that offcer, and seek redress for a court- inficted injury in a purported original action. Properly understood, therefore, Article III, the Rooker- Feldman doctrine, and procedural due process principles work in harmony. The majority's piecemeal analysis re- places this natural coherence with chaos. It dilutes Arti- cle III's traceability and redressability requirements to the point of irrelevance. It creates a system in which the same state-court actions simultaneously give rise to identical orig- inal and appellate claims for relief. See this Court's Rule . (“[T]he time to fle [a] petition for a writ of certiorari . . . runs from the date of the denial of rehearing” by the lower court). It allows Reed to convert his failed certiorari petition into a § complaint. And, in doing so, it author- izes a proceeding in which the District Court can do nothing except opine on the constitutional merits of a state-court adjudication. * * * If there is a mitigating factor to today's decision, it is that the § action that the Court misguidedly allows to pro- ceed is no barrier to the prompt execution of Reed's lawful sentence. See Hill v. McDonough, U. S. , – (). Indeed, Reed conceded at oral argument “that you do not get a stay of execution just because you brought [a Page Proof Pending Publication REED v. GOERTZ