Justice Gorsuch announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Parts IV–B, IV–C, and IV–D. What goods belong in our stores? Usually, consumer de- mand and local laws supply some of the answer. Recently, California adopted just such a law banning the in-state sale of certain pork products derived from breeding pigs confned in stalls so small they cannot lie down, stand up, or turn around. In response, two groups of out-of-state pork pro- Notz, Solicitor General, Sarah A. Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General, Chris- tina Hansen, Assistant Attorney General, by Dana Nessel, Attorney Gen- eral of Michigan, Fadwa A. Hammoud, Solicitor General, and Ann M. Sherman, Deputy Solicitor General, by Matthew J. Platkin, Acting Attor- ney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their respec- tive jurisdictions as follows: Philip J. Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Karl Racine of the District of Columbia, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Maura Healey of Massachusetts, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Letitia James of New York, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, and Robert W. Ferguson of Washington; for the American Public Health Association et al. by Henry Weisburg and Matthew G. Berkowitz; for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals by Jennifer H. Chin; for the Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc., by Bryan W. Pease; for Animal Protection Organizations et al. by Katherine A. Meyer; for the Association of California Egg Farmers by Thomas G. Saunders; for the Center for a Humane Economy et al. by Jessica L. Blome; for Constitutional Law Scholars by Eric B. Boettcher; for Eco- nomic Research Organizations by Benjamin D. Battles and Agatha M. Cole; for Federalism Scholars by Gregory M. Lipper; for the Global Animal Partnership et al. by Alethea Anne Swift, Jonathan S. Massey, and Wil- liam J. Friedman; for Historians by Sheldon Eisenberg; for the National League of Cities et al. by John J. Korzen; for the Northeast Organic Dairy Producers Alliance by Christopher J. Wright and Jason Neal; for the Per- due Premium Meat Co. by Mitchell Y. Mirviss; for the Physicians Commit- tee for Responsible Medicine by Corey Page; for Public Citizen by Nandan M. Joshi, Allison M. Zieve, and Scott L. Nelson; for Worker Safety Advo- cates by David S. Muraskin; for Dr. Leon Barringer by Elizabeth R. Moulton and Melanie R. Hallums; for Sen. Cory Booker by Glenn A. Danas; for Donald Broom et al. by Gregory G. Rapawy; for Barry Fried- man et al. by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and Brian R. Fra- zelle; for Jim Keen, DVM, Ph.D., et al. by Mark M. Leitner and Joseph NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ducers fled this lawsuit, arguing that the law unconstitution- ally interferes with their preferred way of doing business in violation of this Court's dormant Commerce Clause prece- dents. Both the district court and court of appeals dis- missed the producers' complaint for failing to state a claim. We affrm. Companies that choose to sell products in various States must normally comply with the laws of those various States. Assuredly, under this Court's dormant Commerce Clause decisions, no State may use its laws to discriminate purposefully against out-of-state economic in- terests. But the pork producers do not suggest that Califor- nia's law offends this principle. Instead, they invite us to fashion two new and more aggressive constitutional restric- tions on the ability of States to regulate goods sold within their borders. We decline that invitation. While the Con- stitution addresses many weighty issues, the type of pork chops California merchants may sell is not on that list. I Modern American grocery stores offer a dizzying array of choice. Often, consumers may choose among eggs that are large, medium, or small; eggs that are white, brown, or some other color; eggs from cage-free chickens or ones raised con- sistent with organic farming standards. When it comes to meat and fsh, the options are no less plentiful. Products may be marketed as free range, wild caught, or graded by quality (prime, choice, select, and beyond). The pork prod- ucts at issue here, too, sometimes come with “antibiotic-free” and “crate-free” labels. USDA, Report to Congress: Live- S. Goode; for O. Carter Snead et al. by Megan M. Wold; and for Mark Wu by Mr. Wu, pro se. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Agricultural and Resource Econom- ics Professors by Kathleen Hartnett and Adam S. Gershenson; for Butch- erBox by Joshua I. Schiller; for Small and Independent Farming Busi- nesses et al. by Jamie Crooks; and for Lea Brilmayer by Tassity S. Johnson. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court stock Mandatory Reporting (), https://www.ams.usda .gov/sites/default/files/media/LMRReporttoCongress .pdf. Much of this product differentiation refects consumer demand, informed by individual taste, health, or moral considerations. Informed by similar concerns, States (and their predeces- sors) have long enacted laws aimed at protecting animal wel- fare. As far back as , the Massachusetts Bay Colony prohibited “Tirranny or Crueltie towards any bruite Crea- ture.” Body of Liberties § , in A Bibliographical Sketch of the Laws of the Massachusetts Colony – (). Today, Massachusetts prohibits the sale of pork products from breeding pigs (or their offspring) if the breeding pig has been confned “in a manner that prevents [it] from lying down, standing up, fully extending [its] limbs or turning around freely.” Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. , App. §§ –, – (Cum. Supp. ). Nor is that State alone. Florida's Con- stitution prohibits “any person [from] confn[ing] a pig during pregnancy . . . in such a way that she is prevented from turning around freely.” Art. X, § (a). Arizona, Maine, Michigan, Oregon, and Rhode Island, too, have laws regulat- ing animal confnement practices within their borders. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § –.(A) (); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. , §§ ()–() (); Mich. Comp. Laws § .() (West Cum. Supp. ); Ore. Rev. Stat. §§ .()–() (); R. I. Gen. Laws § –.– (Supp. ). This case involves a challenge to a California law known as Proposition . In November and with the support of about % of participating voters, California adopted a ballot initiative that revised the State's existing standards for the in-state sale of eggs and announced new standards for the in-state sale of pork and veal products. App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. As relevant here, Proposition forbids the in-state sale of whole pork meat that comes from breed- ing pigs (or their immediate offspring) that are “confned Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court in a cruel manner.” Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. § (b)() (West Cum. Supp. ). Subject to certain ex- ceptions, the law deems confnement “cruel” if it prevents a pig from “lying down, standing up, fully extending [its] limbs, or turning around freely.” § (e)(). Since Prop- osition 's adoption, the State has begun developing “pro- posed regulations” that would permit compliance “certifca- tion[s]” to be issued “by non-governmental third parties, many used for myriad programs (e. g., `organic') already.” Brief for Intervenor Respondents , n. . A spirited debate preceded the vote on Proposition . Proponents observed that, in some farming operations, preg- nant pigs remain “[e]ncased” for weeks in “ft-to-size” metal crates. M. Scully, A Brief for the Pigs: The Case of National Pork Producers Council v. Ross, National Review, July , , https://www.nationalreview.com///a- brief - for - the - pigs - the - case - of - national - pork - producers - council-v-ross/. These animals may receive their only op- portunity for exercise when they are moved to a separate barn to give birth and later returned for another weeks of pregnancy confnement—with the cycle repeating until the pigs are slaughtered. Ibid. Proponents hoped that Propo- sition would go a long way toward eliminating pork sourced in this manner “from the California marketplace.” A. Padilla, Cal. Secretary of State, California General Elec- tion—Official Voter Information Guide (Nov. , ) (Voter Guide), https://vig.cdn.sos.ca.gov//general/pdf/ complete-vig.pdf. Proponents also suggested that the law would have health benefts for consumers because “packing animals in tiny, flthy cages increases the risk of food poison- ing.” Ibid.; see App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. Opponents pressed their case in strong terms too. They argued that existing farming practices did a better job of protecting animal welfare (for example, by preventing pig- on-pig aggression) and ensuring consumer health (by avoid- ing contamination) than Proposition would. Id., at a– a; see also Voter Guide –. They also warned voters Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court that Proposition would require some farmers and proces- sors to incur new costs. Id., at . Ones that might be “passed through” to California consumers. Ibid. Shortly after Proposition 's adoption, two organiza- tions—the National Pork Producers Council and the Ameri- can Farm Bureau Federation (collectively, petitioners)—fled this lawsuit on behalf of their members who raise and proc- ess pigs. App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. Petitioners al- leged that Proposition violates the U. S. Constitution by impermissibly burdening interstate commerce. Id., at a–a. In support of that legal claim, petitioners pleaded a num- ber of facts. They acknowledged that, in response to con- sumer demand and the laws of other States, % of their industry has already converted to some form of group hous- ing for pregnant pigs. Id., at a. But, petitioners cau- tioned, even some farmers who already raise group-housed pigs will have to modify their practices if they wish to com- ply with Proposition . Id., at a–a. Much of pork production today is vertically integrated, too, with farmers selling pigs to large processing frms that turn them into different “cuts of meat” and distribute the “different parts . . . all over to completely different end users.” Id., at a– a. Revising this system to segregate and trace Propo- sition -compliant pork, petitioners alleged, will require certain processing frms to make substantial new capital in- vestments. Id., at a–a. Ultimately, petitioners esti- mated that “compliance with Proposition will increase production costs” by “.% . . . at the farm level.” Id., at a. These compliance costs will fall on California and out- of-state producers alike. Ibid. But because California im- ports almost all the pork it consumes, petitioners empha- sized, “the majority” of Proposition 's compliance costs will be initially borne by out-of-state frms. Ibid. After considerable motions practice, the district court held that petitioners' complaint failed to state a claim as a matter of law and dismissed the case. F. Supp. d (SD Cal. NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ). With Judge Ikuta writing for a unanimous panel, the Ninth Circuit affrmed. F. th (). Following that ruling, petitioners sought certiorari and we agreed to consider the complaint's legal suffciency for ourselves. U. S. ––– (). II The Constitution vests Congress with the power to “regu- late Commerce . . . among the several States.” Art. I, § , cl. . Everyone agrees that Congress may seek to exercise this power to regulate the interstate trade of pork, much as it has done with various other products. Everyone agrees, too, that congressional enactments may preempt conficting state laws. See Art. VI, cl. . But everyone also agrees that we have nothing like that here. Despite the persistent efforts of certain pork producers, Congress has yet to adopt any statute that might displace Proposition or laws regu- lating pork production in other States. See, e. g., H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (); H. R. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a) (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a) (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a) (). That has led petitioners to resort to litigation, pinning their hopes on what has come to be called the dormant Com- merce Clause. Reading between the Constitution's lines, petitioners observe, this Court has held that the Commerce Clause not only vests Congress with the power to regulate interstate trade; the Clause also “contain[s] a further, nega- tive command,” one effectively forbidding the enforcement of “certain state [economic regulations] even when Congress has failed to legislate on the subject.” Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. Jefferson Lines, Inc., U. S. , (). This view of the Commerce Clause developed gradually. In Gibbons v. Ogden, Chief Justice Marshall recognized that the States' constitutionally reserved powers enable them to regulate commerce in their own jurisdictions in ways sure to have “a remote and considerable infuence on commerce” in other States. Wheat. , (). By way of example, Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court he cited “[i]nspection laws, quarantine laws, [and] health laws of every description.” Ibid. At the same time, how- ever, Chief Justice Marshall saw “great force in th[e] argu- ment” that the Commerce Clause might impliedly bar certain types of state economic regulation. Id., at . Decades later, in Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia ex rel. Soc. for Relief of Distressed Pilots, this Court again recognized that the power vested in Congress to regulate interstate commerce leaves the States substantial leeway to adopt their own commercial codes. How. , – (). But once more, the Court hinted that the Constitu- tion may come with some restrictions on what “may be regu- lated by the States” even “in the absence of all congressional legislation.” Id., at . Eventually, the Court cashed out these warnings, holding that state laws offend the Commerce Clause when they seek to “build up . . . domestic commerce” through “burdens upon the industry and business of other States,” regardless of whether Congress has spoken. Guy v. Baltimore, U. S. , (). At the same time, though, the Court reiter- ated that, absent discrimination, “a State may exclude from its territory, or prohibit the sale therein of any articles which, in its judgment, fairly exercised, are prejudicial to” the interests of its citizens. Ibid. Today, this antidiscrimination principle lies at the “very core” of our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. Camps Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, U. S. , (). In its “modern” cases, this Court has said that the Commerce Clause prohibits the enforcement of state laws “driven by . . . `economic protectionism—that is, regulatory measures designed to beneft in-state economic interests by burdening out-of-state competitors.' ” Depart- ment of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , – () (quoting New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, U. S. , – ()); see also Tennessee Wine and Spirits Retailers Assn. v. Thomas, U. S. –––, ––– () (observ- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ing that this Court's cases operate principally to “safeguard against state protectionism”); Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. County of Kent, U. S. , , n. () (describing “a violation of the dormant Commerce Clause” as “discrimi- nation against interstate commerce”). Admittedly, some “Members of the Court have authored vigorous and thoughtful critiques of this interpretation” of the Commerce Clause. Tennessee Wine, U. S., at ––– (citing cases). They have not necessarily quarreled with the antidiscrimination principle. But they have suggested that it may be more appropriately housed elsewhere in the Constitution. Perhaps in the Import-Export Clause, which prohibits States from “lay[ing] any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports” without permission from Congress. Art. I, § , cl. ; see Camps Newfound/Owatonna, U. S., at – (Thomas, J., dissenting). Perhaps in the Privi- leges and Immunities Clause, which entitles “[t]he Citizens of each State” to “all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.” Art. IV, § ; see Tyler Pipe Indus- tries, Inc. v. Washington State Dept. of Revenue, U. S. , () (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Or perhaps the principle inheres in the very struc- ture of the Constitution, which “was framed upon the theory that the peoples of the several [S]tates must sink or swim together.” American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Michigan Pub. Serv. Comm'n, U. S. , () (internal quota- tion marks omitted). Whatever one thinks about these critiques, we have no need to engage with any of them to resolve this case. Even under our received dormant Commerce Clause case law, peti- tioners begin in a tough spot. They do not allege that Cali- fornia's law seeks to advantage in-state frms or disadvan- tage out-of-state rivals. In fact, petitioners disavow any discrimination-based claim, conceding that Proposition imposes the same burdens on in-state pork producers that it imposes on out-of-state ones. As petitioners put it, “the Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court dormant Commerce Clause . . . bar on protectionist state statutes that discriminate against interstate commerce . . . is not in issue here.” Brief for Petitioners , n. . III Having conceded that California's law does not implicate the antidiscrimination principle at the core of this Court's dormant Commerce Clause cases, petitioners are left to pur- sue two more ambitious theories. In the frst, petitioners invoke what they call “extraterritoriality doctrine.” Id., at . They contend that our dormant Commerce Clause cases suggest an additional and “almost per se” rule forbidding en- forcement of state laws that have the “practical effect of con- trolling commerce outside the State,” even when those laws do not purposely discriminate against out-of-state economic interests. Ibid. Petitioners further insist that Proposition offends this “almost per se” rule because the law will im- pose substantial new costs on out-of-state pork producers who wish to sell their products in California. A This argument falters out of the gate. Put aside what problems may attend the minor (factual) premise of this ar- gument. Focus just on the major (legal) premise. Petition- ers say the “almost per se” rule they propose follows ineluc- tably from three cases—Healy v. Beer Institute, U. S. (); Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. v. New York State Liquor Authority, U. S. (); and Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., U. S. (). A close look at those cases, however, reveals nothing like the rule petition- ers posit. Instead, each typifes the familiar concern with preventing purposeful discrimination against out-of-state economic interests. Start with Baldwin. There, this Court refused to enforce New York laws that barred out-of-state dairy farmers from selling their milk in the State “unless the price paid to” them Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court matched the minimum price New York law guaranteed in- state producers. Id., at . In that way, the challenged laws deliberately robbed out-of-state dairy farmers of the opportunity to charge lower prices in New York thanks to whatever “natural competitive advantage” they might have enjoyed over in-state dairy farmers—for example, lower cost structures, more productive farming practices, or “lusher pasturage.” D. Regan, The Supreme Court and State Pro- tectionism: Making Sense of the Dormant Commerce Clause, Mich. L. Rev. , (). The problem with New York's laws was thus a simple one: They “plainly discrimi- nate[d]” against out-of-staters by “erecting an economic bar- rier protecting a major local industry against competition from without the State.” Dean Milk Co. v. Madison, U. S. , () (discussing Baldwin). Really, the laws operated like “a tariff or customs duty.” West Lynn Cream- ery, Inc. v. Healy, U. S. , (); see Baldwin, U. S., at (condemning the challenged laws for seeking to “protec[t]” New York dairy farmers “against competition from without”). Brown-Forman and Healy differed from Baldwin only in that they involved price-affrmation, rather than price-fxing, statutes. In Brown-Forman, New York required liquor dis- tillers to affrm (on a monthly basis) that their in-state prices were no higher than their out-of-state prices. U. S., at . Once more, the goal was plain: New York sought to force out-of-state distillers to “surrender” whatever cost ad- vantages they enjoyed against their in-state rivals. Id., at . Once more, the law amounted to “simple economic pro- tectionism.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). In Healy, a Connecticut law required out-of-state beer merchants to affrm that their in-state prices were no higher than those they charged in neighboring States. U. S., at –. Here, too, protectionism took center stage. As the Court later noted, “[t]he essential vice in laws” like Con- necticut's is that they “hoard” commerce “for the beneft of” Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court in-state merchants and discourage consumers from crossing state lines to make their purchases from nearby out-of-state vendors. C & A Carbone, Inc. v. Clarkstown, U. S. , – (). Nor did the law in Healy even try to cloak its discriminatory purpose: “By its plain terms, the Connecti- cut affrmation statute applie[d] solely to interstate” frms, and in that way “clearly discriminate[d] against interstate commerce.” U. S., at –. The Court also worried that, if the Connecticut law stood, “each of the border States” could “enac[t] statutes essentially identical to Connecticut's” in retaliation—a result often associated with avowedly pro- tectionist economic policies. Id., at –. B Petitioners insist that our reading of these cases misses the forest for the trees. On their account, Baldwin, Brown- Forman, and Healy didn't just fnd an impermissible dis- criminatory purpose in the challenged laws; they also sug- gested an “almost per se” rule against state laws with “extraterritorial effects.” Brief for Petitioners , . In Healy, petitioners stress, the Court included language criti- cizing New York's laws for having the “ `practical effect' ” of “control[ling] commerce `occurring wholly outside the bound- aries of [the] State.' ” Brief for Petitioners , (quoting U. S., at ). In Brown-Forman, petitioners observe, the Court suggested that whether a state law “ `is addressed only to [in-state] sales' ” “ `is irrelevant if the “practical ef- fect” of the law is to control' ” out-of-state prices. Brief for Petitioners (quoting U. S., at ). Petitioners point to similar language in Baldwin as well. Brief for Petition- ers (quoting U. S., at –). In our view, however, petitioners read too much into too little. “[T]he language of an opinion is not always to be parsed as though we were dealing with language of a stat- ute.” Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., U. S. , (). Instead, we emphasize, our opinions dispose of discrete cases Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court and controversies and they must be read with a careful eye to context. See Cohens v. Virginia, Wheat. , – () (Marshall, C. J.). And when it comes to Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy, the language petitioners high- light appeared in a particular context and did particular work. Throughout, the Court explained that the challenged statutes had a specifc impermissible “extraterritorial ef- fect”—they deliberately “prevent[ed out-of-state frms] from undertaking competitive pricing” or “deprive[d] businesses and consumers in other States of `whatever competitive ad- vantages they may possess.' ” Healy, U. S., at – (quoting Brown-Forman, U. S., at ). In recognizing this much, we say nothing new. This Court has already described “[t]he rule that was applied in Baldwin and Healy” as addressing “price control or price affrmation statutes” that tied “the price of . . . in-state prod- ucts to out-of-state prices.” Pharmaceutical Research and Mfrs. of America v. Walsh, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). Many lower courts have read these decisions in exactly the same way. See, e. g., F. th, at –; Association for Accessible Medicines v. Frosh, F. d , (CA ); Energy and Environment Legal Inst. v. Epel, F. d , (CA ); Ameri- can Beverage Assn. v. Snyder, F. d , (CA ). Consider, too, the strange places petitioners' alternative interpretation could lead. In our interconnected national marketplace, many (maybe most) state laws have the “practi- cal effect of controlling” extraterritorial behavior. State income tax laws lead some individuals and companies to relocate to other jurisdictions. See, e. g., Banner v. United States, F. d , (CADC ) (per curiam). Envi- ronmental laws often prove decisive when businesses choose where to manufacture their goods. See American Beverage Assn., F. d, at (Sutton, J., concurring). Add to the extraterritorial-effects list all manner of “libel laws, secu- rities requirements, charitable registration requirements, franchise laws, tort laws,” and plenty else besides. J. Gold- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court smith & A. Sykes, The Internet and the Dormant Commerce Clause, Yale L. J. , (). Nor, as we have seen, is this a recent development. Since the founding, States have enacted an “immense mass” of “[i]nspection laws, quar- antine laws, [and] health laws of every description” that have a “considerable” infuence on commerce outside their bor- ders. Gibbons, Wheat., at ; see also Cooley, How., at –. Petitioners' “almost per se” rule against laws that have the “practical effect” of “controlling” extraterrito- rial commerce would cast a shadow over laws long under- stood to represent valid exercises of the States' constitution- ally reserved powers. It would provide neither courts nor litigants with meaningful guidance in how to resolve dis- putes over them. Instead, it would invite endless litigation and inconsistent results. Can anyone really suppose Bald- win, Brown-Forman, and Healy meant to do so much? In rejecting petitioners' “almost per se” theory we do not mean to trivialize the role territory and sovereign bound- aries play in our federal system. Certainly, the Constitution takes great care to provide rules for fxing and changing state borders. Art. IV, § , cl. . Doubtless, too, courts must sometimes referee disputes about where one State's au- thority ends and another's begins—both inside and outside the commercial context. In carrying out that task, this Court has recognized the usual “legislative power of a State to act upon persons and property within the limits of its own territory,” Hoyt v. Sprague, U. S. , (), a fea- ture of our constitutional order that allows “different com- munities” to live “with different local standards,” Sable Com- munications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, U. S. , (). But, by way of example, no one should think that one State may adopt a law exempting securities held by the residents of a second State from taxation in that second State. Bona- parte v. Tax Court, U. S. , – (). Nor, we have held, should anyone think one State may prosecute the citizen of another State for acts committed “outside [the frst State's] jurisdiction” that are not “intended to produce [or Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court that do not] produc[e] detrimental effects within it.” Strass- heim v. Daily, U. S. , (). To resolve disputes about the reach of one State's power, this Court has long consulted original and historical under- standings of the Constitution's structure and the principles of “sovereignty and comity” it embraces. BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore, U. S. , (). This Court has invoked as well a number of the Constitution's express provisions—including “the Due Process Clause and the Full Faith and Credit Clause.” Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts, U. S. , (). The antidiscrimination principle found in our dormant Commerce Clause cases may well rep- resent one more effort to mediate competing claims of sover- eign authority under our horizontal separation of powers. But none of this means, as petitioners suppose, that any question about the ability of a State to project its power extraterritorially must yield to an “almost per se” rule under the dormant Commerce Clause. This Court has never be- fore claimed so much “ground for judicial supremacy under the banner of the dormant Commerce Clause.” United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Man- agement Authority, U. S. , (). We see no reason to change course now. Beyond Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy, petitioners point to Edgar v. MITE Corp., U. S. (), as authority for the “almost per se” rule they propose. Invoking the dormant Commerce Clause, a plurality in that case declined to enforce an Illinois securities law that “directly regulate[d] transactions which [took] place . . . wholly outside the State” and involved individuals “having no connection with Illinois.” Id., at – (emphasis added). Some have questioned whether the state law at issue in Edgar posed a dormant Commerce Clause question as much as one testing the territorial limits of state authority under the Constitu- tion's horizontal separation of powers. See, e. g., D. Regan, Siamese Es- says: (I) CTS Corp. v. Dynamics Corp. of America and Dormant Com- merce Clause Doctrine; (II) Extraterritorial State Legislation, Mich. L. Rev. , –, – (); cf. Shelby County v. Holder, U. S. , () (“[A]ll States enjoy equal sovereignty”). But either way, the Edgar plurality opinion does not support the rule petitioners Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court IV Failing in their frst theory, petitioners retreat to a second they associate with Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. (). Under Pike, they say, a court must at least assess “ `the burden imposed on interstate commerce' ” by a state law and prevent its enforcement if the law's burdens are “ `clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefts.' ” Brief for Petitioners . Petitioners then rattle off a litany of reasons why they believe the benefts Proposition se- cures for Californians do not outweigh the costs it imposes on out-of-state economic interests. We see problems with this theory too. A In the frst place, petitioners overstate the extent to which Pike and its progeny depart from the antidiscrimination rule that lies at the core of our dormant Commerce Clause juris- prudence. As this Court has previously explained, “no clear line” separates the Pike line of cases from our core antidis- crimination precedents. General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , , n. (). While many of our dormant Commerce Clause cases have asked whether a law exhibits “ `facial discrimination,' ” “several cases that have purported to apply [Pike,] including Pike itself,” have “turned in whole or in part on the discriminatory character of the challenged state regulations.” Ibid. In other words, if some of our cases focus on whether a state law discriminates on its face, the Pike line serves as an important reminder that a law's practical effects may also disclose the presence of a discrimi- natory purpose. Pike itself illustrates the point. That case concerned an Arizona order requiring cantaloupes grown in state to be propose. That decision spoke to a law that directly regulated out-of-state transactions by those with no connection to the State. Petitioners do not allege those conditions exist here. To the contrary, they acknowledge that Proposition regulates only products that companies choose to sell “within” California. Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. § (b). Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court processed and packed in state. U. S., at –. The Court held that Arizona's order violated the dormant Com- merce Clause. Id., at . Even if that order could be fairly characterized as facially neutral, the Court stressed that it “requir[ed] business operations to be performed in [state] that could more effciently be performed elsewhere.” Id., at . The “practical effect[s]” of the order in opera- tion thus revealed a discriminatory purpose—an effort to in- sulate in-state processing and packaging businesses from out-of-state competition. Id., at , . Other cases in the Pike line underscore the same message. In Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co., the Court found no impermissible burden on interstate commerce because, looking to the law's effects, “there [was] no reason to suspect that the gainers” would be in-state frms or that “the losers [would be] out-of-state frms.” U. S. , (); see also id., at –, and n. (Powell, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (asking whether the “actual purpose,” if not the “ `avowed purpose,' ” of the law was discrimina- tion). Similarly, in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, the Court keyed to the fact that the effect of the challenged law was only to shift business from one set of out-of-state suppliers to another. U. S. , (). And in United Haulers, a plurality upheld the challenged law be- cause it could not “detect” any discrimination in favor of in- state businesses or against out-of-state competitors. U. S., at . In each of these cases and many more, the presence or absence of discrimination in practice proved decisive. Once again, we say nothing new here. Some time ago, Tracy identifed the congruity between our core dormant Commerce Clause precedents and the Pike line. U. S., at , n. . Many lower courts have done the same. See, e. g., Rosenblatt v. Santa Monica, F. d , (CA ); Park Pet Shop, Inc. v. Chicago, F. d , (CA ); Amanda Acquisition Corp. v. Universal Foods Corp., Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court F. d , (CA ). So have many scholars. See, e. g., R. Fallon, The Dynamic Constitution (d ed. ) (observing that Pike serves to “ `smoke out' a hidden” pro- tectionism); B. Friedman & D. Deacon, A Course Unbroken: The Constitutional Legitimacy of the Dormant Commerce Clause, Va. L. Rev. , (); Regan, Mich. L. Rev., at . Nor does any of this help petitioners in this case. They not only disavow any claim that Proposition discriminates on its face. They nowhere suggest that an examination of Proposition 's practical effects in operation would disclose purposeful discrimination against out-of-state businesses. While this Court has left the “courtroom door open” to chal- lenges premised on “even nondiscriminatory burdens,” Davis, U. S., at , and while “a small number of our cases have invalidated state laws . . . that appear to have been genuinely nondiscriminatory,” Tracy, U. S., at , n. , Most notably, Tracy referred to, and petitioners briefy allude to, a line of cases that originated before Pike in which this Court refused to enforce certain state regulations on instrumentalities of interstate transporta- tion—trucks, trains, and the like. See, e. g., Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines, Inc., U. S. , – () (concerning a state law specifying cer- tain mud faps for trucks and trailers); Southern Pacifc Co. v. Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, U. S. , – () (addressing a state law regard- ing the length of trains). Petitioners claim these cases support something like the extraterritoriality or balancing rules they propose. But at least some decisions in this line might be viewed as condemning state laws that “although neutral on their face . . . were enacted at the instance of, and primarily beneft,” in-state interests. Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice, U. S. , (); see also B. Friedman & D. Deacon, A Course Unbroken: The Constitutional Legitimacy of the Dormant Commerce Clause, Va. L. Rev. , (). In any event, this Court “has only rarely held that the Commerce Clause itself pre-empts an entire feld from state regulation, and then only when a lack of national uniformity would impede the fow of interstate goods.” Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. , () (emphasis added). Nothing like that exists here. We do not face a law that impedes the fow of commerce. Pigs are not trucks or trains. Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Gorsuch, J. petitioners' claim falls well outside Pike's heartland. That is not an auspicious start. B Matters do not improve from there. While Pike has tra- ditionally served as another way to test for purposeful dis- crimination against out-of-state economic interests, and while some of our cases associated with that line have ex- pressed special concern with certain state regulation of the instrumentalities of interstate transportation, see n. , supra, petitioners would have us retool Pike for a much more ambitious project. They urge us to read Pike as authorizing judges to strike down duly enacted state laws regulating the in-state sale of ordinary consumer goods (like pork) based on nothing more than their own assessment of the relevant law's “costs” and “benefts.” That we can hardly do. Whatever other judicial authori- ties the Commerce Clause may imply, that kind of freewheel- ing power is not among them. Petitioners point to nothing in the Constitution's text or history that supports such a project. And our cases have expressly cautioned against judges using the dormant Commerce Clause as “a roving license for federal courts to decide what activities are ap- propriate for state and local government to undertake.” United Haulers, U. S., at . While “[t]here was a time when this Court presumed to make such binding judgments for society, under the guise of interpreting the Due Process Clause,” we have long refused pleas like petitioners' “to re- claim that ground” in the name of the dormant Commerce Clause. Id., at . Not only is the task petitioners propose one the Commerce Clause does not authorize judges to undertake. This Court has also recognized that judges often are “not institutionally suited to draw reliable conclusions of the kind that would be necessary . . . to satisfy [the] Pike” test as petitioners con- ceive it. Davis, U. S., at . Our case illustrates the problem. On the “cost” side of the ledger, petitioners allege they will face increased production Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Gorsuch, J. expenses because of Proposition . On the “benefts” side, petitioners acknowledge that Californians voted for Proposi- tion to vindicate a variety of interests, many noneconomic. See App. to Pet. for Cert. a (alleging in their complaint that “Proposition 's requirements were driven by [a] con- ception of what qualifes as `cruel' animal housing” and by the State's concern for the “ `health and safety of California consumers' ”). How is a court supposed to compare or weigh economic costs (to some) against noneconomic benefts (to others)? No neutral legal rule guides the way. The com- peting goods before us are insusceptible to resolution by ref- erence to any juridical principle. Really, the task is like being asked to decide “whether a particular line is longer than a particular rock is heavy.” Bendix Autolite Corp. v. Midwesco Enterprises, Inc., U. S. , () (Sca- lia, J.,