Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the Court. In Ortiz v. Jordan, we held that an order denying sum- mary judgment on suffciency-of-the-evidence grounds is not reviewable on appeal after a trial. U. S. (). Thus, a party who wants to preserve a suffciency challenge for review on appeal must raise it anew in a post-trial mo- tion. The question presented in this case is whether this preservation requirement extends to a purely legal issue re- solved at summary judgment. The answer is no. I A The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure empower district courts to direct the entry of judgment before, during, or after trial. Before trial, the defendant can fle a motion to dismiss the complaint based on certain defenses, such as lack of jurisdiction or failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. (b). If the district court denies that motion (or any other Rule motion), the case advances to discovery for the parties to marshal evi- dence supporting their claims and defenses. During or after that process, either party can move for summary judgment under Rule , which requires a district court to enter judg- ment on a claim or defense if there is “no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. (a). If the plaintiff's claims survive summary judgment, the case proceeds to trial. After the presentation of evidence, but before the case is submitted to the jury, Rule (a) authorizes either party to move for judgment as a matter of law. This standard largely “mirrors” the summary- judgment standard, the difference being that district courts evaluate Rule (a) motions in light of the trial record rather If the parties waive their rights to a jury or seek relief that does not entitle them to a jury, the district court will hold a bench trial, which is governed by Rule . Page Proof Pending Publication DUPREE v. YOUNGER Opinion of the Court than the discovery record. Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., U. S. , – (). If the district court does not grant the motion, then the jury will render a verdict. After the verdict, Rule (b) permits a disappointed party to fle a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law (which may also include a re- quest for a new trial under Rule ). The next step for a party who fails to obtain post-trial relief is an appeal. B While Kevin Younger was being held as a pretrial detainee in a Maryland state prison, three corrections offcers as- saulted him. Younger believed that Neil Dupree, a former lieutenant in the prison, had ordered the attack. He sued Dupree and other prison offcials for damages under U. S. C. § , alleging that they had used excessive force in violation of his Fourteenth Amendment due process rights. Dupree moved for summary judgment, arguing that Younger had failed to exhaust his administrative remedies as required by the Prison Litigation Reform Act, U. S. C. § e(a). The District Court denied the motion. It noted factual disagreements between the parties about whether Younger had adhered to Maryland's Administrative Remedy Procedure but concluded that it “need not resolve [those] dis- putes.” Younger v. Green, Civ. No. – (D Md., Dec. , ), App. to Pet. for Cert. a. Instead, the court ob- served that there was “no dispute” that the Maryland prison system had internally investigated Younger's assault. Ibid. And it held that this inquiry satisfed Younger's exhaustion obligation. The case then proceeded to a jury trial. Dupree did not present any evidence relating to his exhaustion defense, nor did he invoke exhaustion in his Rule (a) motion, which the District Court denied. The jury found Dupree and four of his codefendants liable and awarded Younger $, in dam- ages. Dupree did not fle a post-trial motion under Rule (b). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Dupree appealed to the Fourth Circuit. He sought review of a single issue: the District Court's rejection of his exhaus- tion defense at summary judgment. Unfortunately for Dupree, the appeal was over before it began. Fourth Cir- cuit precedent maintains that a claim or defense rejected at summary judgment is not preserved for appellate review un- less it was renewed in a post-trial motion—even when the issue is a purely legal one. Varghese v. Honeywell Int'l, Inc., F. d , – (). Bound by this prece- dent, the panel dismissed the appeal. The Fourth Circuit's decision further cemented a confict among the Courts of Appeals over whether a purely legal challenge resolved at summary judgment must be renewed in a post-trial motion in order to preserve that challenge for appellate review. We granted certiorari to resolve the disagreement. U. S. ––– (). II A The jurisdiction of the Courts of Appeals under U. S. C. § is limited to “appeals from . . . fnal decisions of the Compare Rothstein v. Carriere, F. d , (CA ) (post- trial motion not required to preserve claims of purely legal error); Frank C. Pollara Group, LLC v. Ocean View Inv. Holding, LLC, F. d , (CA ) (same); In re AmTrust Financial Corp., F. d , – (CA ) (same); Chemetall GMBH v. ZR Energy, Inc., F. d , – (CA ) (same); Banuelos v. Construction Laborers' Trust Funds for Southern Cal., F. d , – (CA ) (same); Wolfgang v. Mid-America Motorsports, Inc., F. d , (CA ) (same); Feld v. Feld, F. d , (CADC ) (same), with Ji v. Bose Corp., F. d , – (CA ) (post-trial motion required to preserve claims of pure legal error); Varghese v. Honeywell Int'l, Inc., F. d , – (CA ) (same); Feld Motor Sports, Inc. v. Trax- xas, L. P., F. d , (CA ) (same); American Builders Ins. Co. v. Southern-Owners Ins. Co., F. th , (CA ) (same); see also New York Marine & Gen. Ins. Co. v. Continental Cement Co., F. d , – (CA ) (post-trial motion not required to preserve “preliminary” legal issues). Page Proof Pending Publication DUPREE v. YOUNGER Opinion of the Court district courts.” Interlocutory orders—those that do not dispose of the whole case, like denials of summary judg- ment—are typically not immediately appealable under § . Instead, the “general rule is that `a party is entitled to a single appeal, to be deferred until fnal judgment has been entered, in which claims of district court error at any stage of the litigation may be ventilated.' ” Quackenbush v. Allstate Ins. Co., U. S. , (); see also A C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Pro- cedure § . (d ed. ) (generally, “an appeal from fnal judgment opens the record and permits review of all rulings that led up to the judgment”). Some interlocutory district-court rulings, however, are un- reviewable after fnal judgment because they are overcome by later developments in the litigation. As Ortiz explains, one such ruling is the denial of summary judgment on suffciency-of-the-evidence grounds. U. S., at . Fac- tual challenges depend on, well, the facts, which the parties develop and clarify as the case progresses from summary judgment to a jury verdict. Thus, “[o]nce the case proceeds to trial, the full record developed in court supersedes the record existing at the time of the summary-judgment mo- tion.” Ibid. So after trial, a district court's assessment of the facts based on the summary-judgment record becomes “ancient history and [is] not subject to appeal.” Empress Casino Joliet Corp. v. Balmoral Racing Club, Inc., F. d , – (CA ). Fact-dependent rulings must be appraised in light of the complete trial record. It follows, Ortiz holds, that a party must raise a suffciency-of-the-evidence claim in a post-trial motion to preserve it for review on appeal. U. S., at –. Appellate review, by its nature, requires a lower court deci- sion to review. Freytag v. Commissioner, U. S. , The collateral-order doctrine recognizes exceptions to this rule. For instance, an interlocutory order denying qualifed immunity is sometimes immediately appealable. Mitchell v. Forsyth, U. S. , (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court () (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judg- ment) (the “very word `review' presupposes that a litigant's arguments have been raised and considered in the tribunal of frst instance”). This is especially important for factual challenges based on the trial record, which “cal[l] for the judgment in the frst instance of the judge who saw and heard the witnesses and has the feel of the case which no appellate printed transcript can impart.” Cone v. West Vir- ginia Pulp & Paper Co., U. S. , (). The fling of a post-trial motion under Rule allows the district court to take frst crack at the question that the appellate court will ultimately face: Was there suffcient evidence in the trial record to support the jury's verdict? Absent such a motion, “an appellate court is `powerless' to review the suffciency of the evidence after trial.” Ortiz, U. S., at (quoting Unitherm Food Systems, Inc. v. Swift-Eckrich, Inc., U. S. , ()). B Younger urges us to extend Ortiz's holding to cover pure questions of law resolved in an order denying summary judg- ment. We decline the invitation. While factual issues addressed in summary-judgment de- nials are unreviewable on appeal, the same is not true of purely legal issues—that is, issues that can be resolved with- out reference to any disputed facts. Trials wholly supplant pretrial factual rulings, but they leave pretrial legal rulings undisturbed. The point of a trial, after all, is not to hash out the law. Because a district court's purely legal conclu- sions at summary judgment are not “supersede[d]” by later developments in the litigation, Ortiz, U. S., at , these rulings follow the “general rule” and merge into the fnal judgment, at which point they are reviewable on appeal, Quackenbush, U. S., at . That difference explains why a summary-judgment motion is suffcient to preserve legal but not factual claims. As Ortiz explains, an appellate court's review of factual chal- Page Proof Pending Publication DUPREE v. YOUNGER Opinion of the Court lenges after a trial is rooted in the complete trial record, which means that a district court's factual rulings based on the obsolete summary-judgment record are useless. A dis- trict court's resolution of a pure question of law, by contrast, is unaffected by future developments in the case. From the reviewing court's perspective, there is no beneft to having a district court reexamine a purely legal issue after trial, be- cause nothing at trial will have given the district court any reason to question its prior analysis. We therefore hold that a post-trial motion under Rule is not required to preserve for appellate review a purely legal issue resolved at sum- mary judgment. C Younger's counterarguments do not persuade us other- wise. First, he argues that under Ortiz, an order denying summary judgment is not a “fnal decision” under § and cannot be appealed, regardless of whether the motion was decided on legal or factual grounds. We agree that a denial of summary judgment is “simply a step along the route to fnal judgment,” and so is typically not immediately review- able on appeal. Ortiz, U. S., at . But § does not insulate interlocutory orders from appellate scrutiny; it simply delays review until fnal judgment. Richardson- Merrell Inc. v. Koller, U. S. , () (noting that some errors in interlocutory orders “go uncorrected until the appeal of a fnal judgment”). Indeed, the Ortiz Court ex- pressly declined to address whether summary-judgment de- nials on purely legal issues are reviewable. U. S., at . That caveat would have made little sense had the Court au- thoritatively decided that all summary-judgment denials are meaningless passthroughs that appellate courts should ignore. Next, Younger complains that Dupree's rule creates a two- track system of summary judgment, in which factual and legal claims follow different routes. Summary judgment is summary judgment, Younger insists, so the claims should all Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court travel the same line. But nothing in Rule demands such uniformity. On the contrary, the Rule provides that sum- mary judgment is appropriate when “the movant shows that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. (a) (emphasis added). Rule thus con- templates that the court will sometimes deny the motion be- cause the facts are genuinely in dispute and other times because the law does not support the movant's position. Fitting the preservation rule to the court's rationale (factual or legal) is therefore consistent with the text. It also makes sense. Because a purely legal question is, by defnition, one whose answer is independent of disputed facts, factual development at trial will not change the district court's answer. (Granted, the district court might back- track, but if the question is purely legal, that is because of law books, not trial exhibits.) So what would a repeat- motion requirement for legal questions typically amount to? For litigants, a copy and paste of summary-judgment mo- tions into post-trial format. For district courts, the tedium of saying no twice. There is no reason to force litigants and district courts to undertake that empty exercise. Rule aside, Younger insists that Rule supports him. Under this Rule, a district court can grant judgment as a matter of law if it fnds that “a reasonable jury would not have a legally suffcient evidentiary basis to fnd for the party on that issue.” Fed. Rules Civ. Proc. (a), (b) (em- phasis added). Therefore, Younger says, a Rule motion is an appropriate vehicle for raising purely legal issues once a case proceeds to trial. Maybe so, but this argument is beside the point: Even if a party can raise legal issues in a Rule motion, nothing in the Rule requires her to do so. Finally, Younger predicts that a separate preservation rule for legal issues will prove unworkable because the line between factual and legal questions can be “vexing” for courts and litigants. Pullman-Standard v. Swint, U. S. Page Proof Pending Publication DUPREE v. YOUNGER Opinion of the Court , (). That's a fair concern, and it would not be surprising if “prudent counsel . . . make sure to renew their arguments in a Rule motion” out of an abundance of cau- tion. Feld v. Feld, F. d , (CADC ). But Younger overstates the need for a bright-line rule in this area. “Courts of appeals have long found it possible to sepa- rate factual from legal matters.” Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. v. Sandoz, Inc., U. S. , (). Though there will be edge cases, the experience of the majority of circuits demonstrates that the Courts of Appeals are up to the task. See n. , supra. And for all the virtues of bright- line rules, Younger's would come at a steep cost: the loss of appellate review for unwary litigants who think it futile to relitigate an already-rejected legal argument. III The Fourth Circuit was wrong to hold that purely legal issues resolved at summary judgment must be renewed in a post-trial motion. We need not decide whether the issue Dupree raised on appeal is purely legal—the Court of Ap- peals may evaluate that and any other properly preserved arguments in the frst instance. We therefore vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered. Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: p. , line , “appealable” is changed to “reviewable on appeal” p. , line , “review on” is inserted after “for” p. , line , the frst sentence of the paragraph is deleted and replaced with: “Dupree appealed to the Fourth Circuit. He sought review of a single issue: the District Court's rejection of his exhaustion defense at summary judgment.” p. , in the last sentence of the full paragraph, “appeals” is changed to “rulings” p. , line , “review on” is inserted before “appeal.” p. , lines –, “appealable” is changed to “reviewable on appeal”