Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court. In each of these two cases, the respondent in an adminis- trative enforcement action challenges the constitutional au- thority of the agency to proceed. Both respondents claim that the agencies' administrative law judges (ALJs) are in- suffciently accountable to the President, in violation of sepa- ration-of-powers principles. And one respondent attacks as well the combination of prosecutorial and adjudicatory func- tions in a single agency. The challenges are fundamental, even existential. They maintain in essence that the agen- cies, as currently structured, are unconstitutional in much of their work. Our task today is not to resolve those challenges; rather, it is to decide where they may be heard. The enforcement actions at issue were initiated in the Securities and Ex- change Commission (SEC) and the Federal Trade Commis- sion (FTC). Most objections to those Commissions' pro- ceedings follow a well-trod path. As prescribed by statute, a party makes its claims frst within the Commission itself, and then (if needed) in a federal court of appeals. The par- ties here, however, sidestepped that review scheme. Seek- ing to stop the administrative proceedings, they instead brought their claims in federal district court. The question presented is whether the district courts have jurisdiction to hear those suits—and so to resolve the parties' constitutional challenges to the Commissions' structure. The answer is yes. The ordinary statutory review scheme does not pre- clude a district court from entertaining these extraordinary claims. I Congress established the SEC to protect investors in secu- rities markets, and created the FTC to promote fair competi- tion. The Commissions enforce, respectively, the Securities Exchange Act and the FTC Act (among other laws). See U. S. C. §a et seq. (Exchange Act); U. S. C. § et seq. (FTC Act). Those Acts authorize the Commissions to ad- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court dress statutory violations either by bringing civil suits in fed- eral district court or by instituting their own administrative proceedings. See §§ u(d), u–, u–, u–; §§ (b), (m). When a Commission elects the latter option—as in these two cases—it typically delegates the initial adjudication to an ALJ. See § d–(a); note following § . To foster inde- pendence, each Commission's ALJs are removable “only for good cause” as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB)—a separate agency whose members are themselves removable by the President only for cause, such as “neglect of duty” or “malfeasance.” U. S. C. §§ (a), (d). An ALJ assigned to hear an SEC or FTC enforce- ment action has authority, much like a regular trial judge, to resolve motions, hold a hearing, and then issue a decision. See CFR §§ .–. (); CFR §§ .–. (). A losing party may appeal the ALJ's ruling to the Com- mission; alternatively, the Commission may undertake re- view on its own initiative. See CFR §§ .–.; CFR §§ .–.. Upon completion of internal review, the Commission enters a fnal decision. See CFR § .; CFR § .(a). Or if no such review has occurred, the ALJ's ruling itself becomes the decision of the Commission. See U. S. C. § d–(c); CFR § .(a). The Exchange Act and FTC Act both provide for review of a fnal Commission decision in a court of appeals, rather than a district court. Under the Exchange Act, “[a] person aggrieved by [an SEC] fnal order . . . may obtain review of the order” by fling a petition in a court of appeals. U. S. C. § y(a)(). That petition gives the appellate court “jurisdiction” to “affrm or modify and enforce or to set aside the order in whole or in part.” § y(a)(). The FTC Act similarly provides that the party subject to an FTC order may “obtain a review of such order” in a court of appeals, and grants the court “jurisdiction” to “affrm[ ], modify[ ], or set[ ] aside the order.” § (c). Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court The cases before us, though, did not take the above- described course. In each, the respondent in an administra- tive enforcement action sued in district court prior to an ALJ decision, seeking to enjoin the Commission's proceeding. Each suit charged that some fundamental aspect of the Com- mission's structure violates the Constitution; that the viola- tion made the entire proceeding unlawful; and that being subjected to such an illegitimate proceeding causes legal in- jury (independent of any rulings the ALJ might make). Finally, each suit premised jurisdiction on district courts' ordinary federal-question authority—their power, under U. S. C. § , to resolve “civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States.” We describe the two cases in turn, but what we have just said they have in common is really all it is necessary to know. The frst case arises from an SEC enforcement action brought against Michelle Cochran, a certifed public account- ant. In an earlier round of that proceeding, an ALJ found that Cochran had failed to comply with auditing standards, in violation of the Exchange Act. But soon after that decision issued, this Court held that the SEC's ALJs had been im- properly appointed. See Lucia v. SEC, U. S. –––, ––– (). In compliance with that ruling, the SEC ordered a fresh hearing, conducted by a now validly appointed ALJ. That was the last straw for Cochran. Before the new ALJ hearing began, she sued the Commission in federal district court, asserting jurisdiction under § . Cochran's com- plaint focused on the two layers of tenure protection all ALJs hold: By statute, those offcials may be removed only “for good cause as determined by the [MSPB], whose members themselves can only be removed by the President for good cause.” App. ; see supra, at . That arrangement, Cochran asserted, so greatly insulates ALJs from presiden- tial supervision as to violate the separation of powers—more specifcally, Article II's vesting of executive power in the Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court President. See App. –, –. And because that was true (Cochran continued), ALJs could not constitutionally ex- ercise power: They could neither hold any hearings nor make any decisions. Cochran thus sought declaratory and injunc- tive relief freeing her of the obligation “to submit to an un- constitutional proceeding.” Id., at ; see id., at . The second case arises from an FTC enforcement action against Axon Enterprise, a company that makes and sells policing equipment. In its complaint, the FTC alleged that Axon's purchase of its closest competitor violated the FTC Act's ban on unfair methods of competition. To stop the FTC from pursuing that charge, Axon did just what Cochran had—brought suit against the Commission in district court, premised on federal-question jurisdiction. Like Cochran, Axon asserted that the Commission's ALJs could not consti- tutionally exercise governmental authority because of their dual-layer protection from removal. In addition, Axon claimed that the combination of prosecutorial and adjudica- tive functions in the Commission renders all of its enforce- ment actions unconstitutional. See Complaint in No. :– cv– (D Ariz.), ECF Doc. , p. (protesting that “the FTC will act as prosecutor, judge, and jury”). Again simi- larly to Cochran, Axon asked the court to enjoin the FTC “from subjecting” it to the Commission's “unfair and uncon- stitutional internal forum.” Id., at ; see id., at . In this Court, Axon contends that it separately objected to “the uncodi- fed, black-box `clearance' process” used to determine whether the FTC or the Department of Justice will investigate a merger. Brief for Axon . We do not read the complaint that way. In count I, Axon raised the combination-of-functions claim; in count II, it raised the removal claim; and in count III, it asserted the view (not at issue here) that it did not violate the antitrust laws. See Complaint in No. :–cv– (D Ariz.), pp. –. The single paragraph criticizing the clearance process appears only as background to Axon's dual constitutional claims. Accord, F. d , , n. (CA ) (case below) (noting that the three claims Axon pushed on appeal “do not line up with” Axon's complaint). We therefore do not address the clearance-process issue. Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court Cochran's and Axon's suits met an identical fate in district court: dismissal for lack of jurisdiction. The district court in Cochran's case held that the review scheme specifed in the Exchange Act—“administrative review followed by judicial review in a federal court of appeals”—“implicitly divest[s] district courts of jurisdiction” over “challenges to SEC pro- ceedings,” including Cochran's constitutional ones. App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. –, p. a. Likewise, the district court in Axon's case found that the FTC Act's comparable review scheme displaces § jurisdiction for claims con- cerning the FTC's adjudications. So Axon had to raise its structural constitutional claims “during the administrative process and then renew them” if and when “seeking review in the Court of Appeals.” App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. – , pp. –. On appeal from those decisions, the United States Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and Ninth Circuits split. The Ninth Circuit, considering Axon's case, reached the same conclusion as the district courts. See F. d (). Review- ing this Court's precedents, the Ninth Circuit acknowledged that a statutory review scheme precluding district court ju- risdiction—like the FTC Act's—might not extend to every “type of claim[ ].” Id., at (citing Thunder Basin Coal Co. v. Reich, U. S. , ()). But the court de- cided that Axon's constitutional challenges fell within the FTC Act's scheme, mainly because the scheme guaranteed them “meaningful judicial review.” F. d, at , . The en banc Fifth Circuit disagreed as to the equivalent SEC question. See F. th (). The court maintained that “Cochran's removal power claim is not the type of claim Congress intended to funnel through the Exchange Act's statutory-review scheme.” Id., at – (also citing Thunder Basin, U. S., at ). Drawing on considera- tions identifed in this Court's opinions, the Fifth Circuit rea- soned that Cochran's claim would not receive “meaningful judicial review” in a court of appeals; that the claim was “wholly collateral to the Exchange Act's statutory-review Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court scheme”; and that the claim fell “outside the SEC's exper- tise.” F. th, at –. We granted certiorari in both cases to resolve the division. U. S. ––– (); U. S. ––– (). We now conclude that the review schemes set out in the Exchange Act and the FTC Act do not displace district court jurisdiction over Axon's and Cochran's far-reaching constitutional claims. II A A special statutory review scheme, this Court has recog- nized, may preclude district courts from exercising jurisdic- tion over challenges to federal agency action. See, e. g., Thunder Basin, U. S., at . District courts may ordi- narily hear those challenges by way of U. S. C. § 's grant of jurisdiction for claims “arising under” federal law. Congress, though, may substitute for that district court au- thority an alternative scheme of review. Congress of course may do so explicitly, providing in so many words that district court jurisdiction will yield. But Congress also may do so implicitly, by specifying a different method to resolve claims about agency action. The method Congress typically chooses is the one used in both the Exchange Act and the FTC Act: review in a court of appeals following the agency's own review process. We have several times held that the creation of such a review scheme for agency action divests district courts of their ordinary jurisdiction over the covered cases. See Thunder Basin, U. S., at –; Elgin v. Department of Treasury, U. S. , – (); see also Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Over- sight Bd., U. S. , () (noting that statutory schemes for agency review “[g]enerally” are “exclusive”). The agency effectively flls in for the district court, with the court of appeals providing judicial review. But a statutory review scheme of that kind does not neces- sarily extend to every claim concerning agency action. Our decision in Thunder Basin made that point clear. After Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court fnding that Congress's creation of a “comprehensive review process” like the ones here ousted district courts of jurisdic- tion, the Court asked another question: whether the particu- lar claims brought were “of the type Congress intended to be reviewed within this statutory structure.” U. S., at , . The Court identifed three considerations de- signed to aid in that inquiry, commonly known now as the Thunder Basin factors. First, could precluding district court jurisdiction “foreclose all meaningful judicial review” of the claim? Id., at –. Next, is the claim “wholly collateral to [the] statute's review provisions”? Id., at (internal quotation marks omitted). And last, is the claim “outside the agency's expertise”? Ibid. When the answer to all three questions is yes, “we presume that Congress does not intend to limit jurisdiction.” Free Enterprise Fund, U. S., at . But the same conclusion might follow if the factors point in different directions. The ultimate question is how best to understand what Congress has done—whether the statutory review scheme, though exclusive where it applies, reaches the claim in question. The frst Thunder Basin factor recognizes that Congress rarely allows claims about agency action to escape effective judicial review. See, e. g., Bowen v. Michigan Academy of Family Physicians, U. S. , (). The second and third refect in related ways the point of special review provisions—to give the agency a heightened role in the matters it customarily handles, and can apply distinctive knowledge to. This Court has twice held specifc claims to ft within a statutory review scheme, based on the Thunder Basin fac- tors. In Thunder Basin itself, a coal company subject to the Mine Act fled suit in district court instead of asserting its claims—as a statutory scheme prescribed—before a mine safety commission and then (if needed) a court of appeals. The crux of the dispute concerned the company's refusal to provide employee-designated union offcials with access to the workplace, as the Mine Act apparently required. The Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court company claimed a right to exclude the offcials under an- other statute; it also objected on due process grounds to the agency's imposing a fne before holding a hearing. See U. S., at ; see also Elgin, U. S., at , n. . We held the district court to lack jurisdiction over those claims, and thus directed the company back to the statutory review scheme. The Commission, we emphasized, had “extensive experience” in addressing the statutory issues raised, and could resolve them in ways that “brought to bear” its “exper- tise” over the mining industry. U. S., at –; see Free Enterprise Fund, U. S., at . All that was less so, we acknowledged, of the company's constitutional chal- lenge; but that claim could be “meaningfully addressed in the Court of Appeals.” U. S., at . We applied similar reasoning in Elgin. The statutory re- view scheme there directed federal employees challenging discharge decisions to seek review in the MSPB and then, if needed, in the Federal Circuit (a specifc court of appeals). But Elgin fled suit in district court when he was fred by the government for failing to register for the draft. We held that the court lacked jurisdiction even though Elgin mainly claimed that the draft law, in excluding women, vio- lated the Equal Protection Clause. Although the MSPB might not be able to hold the draft law unconstitutional, we stated, the Court of Appeals could—and that was suffcient to ensure “meaningful review” of Elgin's claim. U. S., at . Still more, Elgin's claim was neither collateral to the MSPB's ordinary proceedings nor unrelated to its expertise. We reasoned that a “challenge to [a discharge] is precisely the type of personnel action regularly adjudicated by the MSPB.” Id., at . And we observed that such an act- ion could involve “threshold” and other “questions unique to the employment context” that “fall[ ] squarely within the MSPB's expertise.” Id., at –. But in Free Enterprise Fund, this Court went the oppo- site way, holding that certain claims landed outside a statu- Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court tory review scheme. The scheme was the Exchange Act's— the same as in Cochran's case. And the main claim in Free Enterprise Fund bears more than a passing resemblance to one Axon and Cochran raise: It, too, alleged that offcials with two layers of tenure protection were unconstitutionally insulated from presidential control. The offcials challenged, though, were different. They were members of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board—an agency regulat- ing the accounting industry under the SEC's oversight. When the Board opened an investigation of an accounting frm's auditing practices, the frm took its Article II claim to district court. This time we held that the court had juris- diction of the action, based on the Thunder Basin factors. We found that the Exchange Act provided no “meaningful avenue of relief” for the frm, given the separation between the Board and the Commission. U. S., at – (inter- nal quotation marks omitted). Not every Board action, we explained, culminates in Commission action—which alone the statute makes reviewable in a court of appeals. And even supposing the SEC took up a matter arising from the Board's investigation, the frm's constitutional challenge would be “collateral” to the subject of that proceeding. The frm, we observed, “object[s] to the Board's existence, not to any of its auditing standards.” Id., at . Finally, we held, the frm's claim was “outside the Commission's compe- tence and expertise.” Id., at . It raised only a “stand- ard” issue of administrative and constitutional law, relating not at all to “considerations of agency policy.” Ibid. (inter- nal quotation marks and alterations omitted). B One way of framing the question we must decide is whether the cases before us are more like Thunder Basin and Elgin or more like Free Enterprise Fund. The answer appears from , feet not very hard. Recall our task: to decide if a claim is “of the type” Congress thought belonged Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court within a statutory scheme. Thunder Basin, U. S., at . The claims here are of the same ilk as the one in Free Enterprise Fund. There, the complaint alleged that the Board's “freedom from Presidential oversight” rendered un- constitutional “all power and authority [the Board] exer- cised.” U. S., at (internal quotation marks omitted). Only the Court's ability to sever the relevant statute's for- cause removal provision enabled the Board to keep running. See ibid. The Article II challenges in Axon's and Cochran's cases would likewise prevent ALJs—through whom the Commissions do much of their work—from exercising any power, unless they lose their double-for-cause tenure protec- tion. And Axon's combination-of-functions claim similarly goes to the core of the FTC's existence, given that the agency indeed houses (and by design) both prosecutorial and adjudicative activities. The challenges here, as in Free Enterprise Fund, are not to any specifc substantive deci- sion—say, to fning a company (Thunder Basin) or fring an employee (Elgin). Nor are they to the commonplace proce- dures agencies use to make such a decision. They are in- stead challenges, again as in Free Enterprise Fund, to the structure or very existence of an agency: They charge that an agency is wielding authority unconstitutionally in all or a broad swath of its work. Given that equivalence, it would be surprising to treat the claims here differently from the one in Free Enterprise Fund—which we held belonged in district court. And when we apply the Thunder Basin factors, we indeed come out in the same place as Free Enterprise Fund. Our reasoning differs in some particulars, refecting variations between that case and the two here. But the ,-foot view of the issue before us ends up a good proxy for the more granular one. Each of the three Thunder Basin fac- tors signals that a district court has jurisdiction to adjudi- cate Axon's and Cochran's (like the accounting frm's) sweep- ing constitutional claims. Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court We begin with the factor whose application here is least straightforward: whether preclusion of district court juris- diction “could foreclose all meaningful judicial review.” Thunder Basin, U. S., at –. Thunder Basin and Elgin both make clear that adequate judicial review does not usually demand a district court's involvement. Review of agency action in a court of appeals can alone “meaningfully address[ ]” a party's claims. Thunder Basin, U. S., at ; see Elgin, U. S., at (holding that Congress pro- vided “meaningful review” in authorizing the Federal Circuit “to consider and decide petitioners' constitutional claims”). Still more, we agree with the Government that the reason Free Enterprise Fund gave for departing from Thunder Basin and Elgin on the judicial review issue does not apply to the cases before us. See Brief for Federal Parties –. As just described, Free Enterprise Fund's analysis on that score relied on the separation between the Board and the SEC. See supra, at . The accounting frm, recall, was enmeshed in a Board investigation. But some Board actions never go to the SEC—and the statutory scheme, we ex- plained, “provides only for judicial review of Commission ac- tion.” U. S., at (emphasis in original). That meant the accounting frm, absent district court jurisdiction, might never have had judicial recourse. But no such worry exists here. Cochran and Axon are parties in ongoing SEC and FTC proceedings, and the statutes at issue provide for judi- cial review of SEC and FTC action. See U. S. C. §§ (c), y(a). Under those statutes, Axon and Cochran can (even- That is so, as both decisions held, even if the agency itself could not have considered or remedied the party's claim—for example, when the agency lacks the power to “declare a statute unconstitutional.” Elgin, U. S., at ; see Thunder Basin, U. S., at . It is also so, as Thunder Basin illustrates, regardless of whether the claim involves a mat- ter of substance (e. g., the coal company's alleged right to exclude union offcials) or one of procedure (e. g., the company's asserted entitlement to an earlier hearing). See id., at –; supra, at –. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tually) obtain review of their constitutional claims through an appeal from an adverse agency action to a court of ap- peals. So Free Enterprise Fund's analysis of the judicial review factor does not control. Yet a problem remains, stemming from the interaction be- tween the alleged injury and the timing of review. To see the diffculty, think frst about Thunder Basin and Elgin. If an appellate court had ruled in favor of the coal company or the federal employee on review of an agency decision, the court could have remedied the party's injury. It could have revoked the fne assessed on the company or reinstated the employee with backpay. But not so here. The harm Axon and Cochran allege is “being subjected” to “unconstitu- tional agency authority”—a “proceeding by an unaccountable ALJ.” Brief for Axon ; see Brief for Cochran (contend- ing she suffers harm from “having to appear in proceedings” before an unconstitutionally insulated ALJ). That harm may sound a bit abstract; but this Court has made clear that it is “a here-and-now injury.” Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, U. S. –––, ––– () (in- ternal quotation marks omitted). And—here is the rub—it is impossible to remedy once the proceeding is over, which is when appellate review kicks in. Suppose a court of appeals agrees with Axon, on review of an adverse FTC decision, that ALJ-led proceedings violate the separation of powers. The court could of course vacate the FTC's order. But Axon's separation-of-powers claim is not about that order; indeed, Axon would have the same claim had it won before the agency. The claim, again, is about subjection to an ille- gitimate proceeding, led by an illegitimate decisionmaker. And as to that grievance, the court of appeals can do nothing: A proceeding that has already happened cannot be undone. Judicial review of Axon's (and Cochran's) structural constitu- tional claims would come too late to be meaningful. The limits of that conclusion are important to emphasize. The Government, in disputing our position, notes that many AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court review schemes—involving not only agency action but also civil and criminal litigation—require parties to wait before appealing, even when doing so subjects them to “signifcant burdens.” Brief for Federal Parties –. That is true, and will remain so: Nothing we say today portends newfound enthusiasm for interlocutory review. Return, for example, to Thunder Basin and Elgin. There, the coal company and federal employee could both have argued that the statutory review process would subject them to greater litigation costs than their preferred suit in district court. But that would not have mattered. We have made clear, just as the Govern- ment says, that “the expense and disruption” of “protracted adjudicatory proceedings” on a claim do not justify immedi- ate review. FTC v. Standard Oil Co. of Cal., U. S. , (); see, e. g., Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., U. S. , (). What makes the difference here is the nature of the claims and accompanying harms that the parties are asserting. Again, Axon and Cochran protest the “here-and-now” injury of subjection to an unconstitutionally structured decisionmaking process. See supra, at . And more, subjection to that process irrespective of its out- come, or of other decisions made within it. A nearer anal- ogy than any the Government offers is to our established immunity doctrines. There, we have identifed certain rights “not to stand trial” or face other legal processes. Mitchell v. Forsyth, U. S. , (). And we have recognized that those rights are “effectively lost” if review is deferred until after trial. Ibid. So too here, Axon and Cochran will lose their rights not to undergo the complained- of agency proceedings if they cannot assert those rights until the proceedings are over. The collateralism factor favors Axon and Cochran for much the same reason—because they are challenging the Commissions' power to proceed at all, rather than actions taken in the agency proceedings. That distinction, as noted earlier, guided Free Enterprise Fund's view that the ac- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court counting frm's challenge qualifed as “collateral.” See U. S., at ; supra, at . The frm, the court reasoned, “object[ed] to the Board's existence, not to any of [the] audit- ing standards” it might apply in regulating accountants. U. S., at . Likewise here, both parties object to the Commissions' power generally, not to anything partic- ular about how that power was wielded. The parties' separation-of-powers claims do not relate to the subject of the enforcement actions—in the one case auditing practices, in the other a business merger. Cf. Mohawk Industries, Inc. v. Carpenter, U. S. , () (considering as part of the “collateral order doctrine,” which governs ap- peals in non-agency litigation, whether a question is “sepa- rate from the merits”). Nor do the parties' claims address the sorts of procedural or evidentiary matters an agency often resolves on its way to a merits decision. Cf. Florida Power & Light Co. v. Lorion, U. S. , () (favor- ing review of such preliminary matters along with the agency's fnal order). The claims, in sum, have nothing to do with the enforcement-related matters the Commissions “regularly adjudicate[ ]”—and nothing to do with those they would adjudicate in assessing the charges against Axon and Cochran. Elgin, U. S., at . Because that is so, the parties' claims are “ `collateral' to any Commission orders or rules from which review might be sought.” Free Enter- prise Fund, U. S., at . The Government's contrary argument would strip the col- lateralism factor of its appropriate function. In the Govern- ment's view, no claim “directed at” a pending Commission proceeding can qualify as collateral to it, even if wholly dis- connected in subject. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. –, p. ; see Brief for Federal Parties , –. The Government thinks that position consistent with Free Enterprise Fund because there an SEC proceeding had not yet begun. See Brief for Federal Parties – (noting that the accounting frm remained enmeshed in a Board investigation). But the Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Opinion of the Court Government's argument still conficts with Free Enterprise Fund's reasoning. In addressing why the frm's claim was collateral, the Court focused solely on what it was about— again, that the frm challenged “the Board's existence,” not “its auditing standards.” U. S., at . And anyway, the Government's theory ill fts the point of the Thunder Basin inquiry—to decide when a particular claim is “of the type” to fall outside a statutory review scheme. U. S., at . That inquiry, just as Free Enterprise Fund recog- nized, requires considering the nature of the claim, not the status (pending or not) of an agency proceeding. Or said another way, the inquiry contemplates (as our collateral- order doctrine also does) that even when a proceeding is pending, an occasional claim may get immediate review—in part because it involves something discrete. Cf. Cohen v. Benefcial Industrial Loan Corp., U. S. , () (allowing an interlocutory appeal from a district court's “col- lateral” ruling, “independent of the cause itself”). The Gov- ernment's redefnition of what counts as collateral would effectively foreclose that possibility. Third and fnally, Cochran's and Axon's claims are “outside the [Commissions'] expertise.” Thunder Basin, U. S., at . On that issue, Free Enterprise Fund could hardly be clearer. Claims that tenure protections violate Article II, the Court there determined, raise “standard questions of ad- ministrative” and constitutional law, detached from “consid- erations of agency policy.” U. S., at (internal quota- tion marks and alterations omitted); see supra, at . That statement covers Axon's and Cochran's claims that ALJs are too far insulated from the President's supervision. And Axon's constitutional challenge to the combination of pros- ecutorial and adjudicative functions is of a piece—similarly distant from the FTC's “competence and expertise.” U. S., at . The Commission knows a good deal about competition policy, but nothing special about the separation of powers. For that reason, we observed two Terms ago, Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court “agency adjudications are generally ill suited to address structural constitutional challenges”—like those maintained here. Carr v. Saul, U. S. –––, ––– (). On this last factor, even the Government mostly gives up the ghost. Its argument goes: “Even when an agency lacks expertise in interpreting the Constitution, it can still `apply its expertise' by deciding other issues”—whether “statutory, regulatory, or factual”—“that `may obviate the need to ad- dress the constitutional challenge.' ” Brief for Federal Par- ties (quoting Elgin, U. S., at –). The frst clause of that sentence concedes the expertise point—and the rest cannot reclaim it. True enough, we partly relied in Elgin on the MSPB's expertise on a raft of ordinary employment issues surrounding the employee's contention that the Equal Protection Clause barred his discharge. See U. S., at –; supra, at . But the Government here does not pretend that Axon's and Cochran's constitutional claims are similarly intertwined with or embedded in matters on which the Commissions are expert. (It is precisely because those claims are not so entangled that the Government must try to redefne what it means for claims to be “collateral” to an agency action. See supra, at –.) And unlike in Elgin, ruling for Axon and Cochran on expertise-laden grounds would not “obviate the need” to address their consti- tutional claims—which, again, allege injury not from this or that ruling but from subjection to all agency authority. Those claims of here-and-now harm would remain no matter how much expertise could be “brought to bear” on the other issues these cases involve. Thunder Basin, U. S., at . All three Thunder Basin factors thus point in the same direction—toward allowing district court review of Axon's and Cochran's claims that the structure, or even existence, of an agency violates the Constitution. For the reasons given above, those claims cannot receive meaningful judicial re- view through the FTC Act or Exchange Act. They are col- lateral to any decisions the Commissions could make in in- Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Thomas, J., concurring dividual enforcement proceedings. And they fall outside the Commissions' sphere of expertise. Our conclusion fol- lows: The claims are not “of the type” the statutory review schemes reach. Id., at . A district court can therefore review them. * * * We accordingly reverse the judgment of the Court of Ap- peals for the Ninth Circuit, affrm the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and remand the two cases for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered. Justice Thomas, concurring. I join the Court's opinion in full because it correctly ap- plies precedent to determine that Axon Enterprise's and Michelle Cochran's structural constitutional claims need not be channeled through the administrative review schemes at issue. I write separately, however, because I have grave doubts about the constitutional propriety of Congress vest- ing administrative agencies with primary authority to ad- judicate core private rights with only deferential judicial review on the back end. I A The Court correctly notes that precedent allows Congress to replace Article III district courts with “an alternative scheme of review,” as it did in the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act at issue here. Ante, at ; see U. S. C. §§ (c) and y(a). Under such schemes, administrative agencies may impose or- ders and penalties on private parties; adjudicate them before agency administrative law judges (ALJs); and only then be subjected to deferential review by an Article III court. As the Court puts it, “[t]he agency effectively flls in for the Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring district court, with the court of appeals providing judicial review.” Ante, at . That Article III review is sharply limited. For example, under the administrative review schemes at issue here, the reviewing court must treat agency fndings of fact as “conclusive” so long as they are “supported by substantial evidence,” § y(a)(); see § (c) (“if sup- ported by evidence”), a highly deferential standard of re- view. The reviewing court also cannot take its own evi- dence—it can only remand the case to the agency for further proceedings. See §§ (c) and y(a)(). This mixed system—primary adjudication by an executive agency subject to only limited Article III review—is unlike the system that prevailed for the frst century of our Nation's existence. During that period, judicial review was “all-or- nothing”; “either a court had authority to review administra- tive action or not, and if it did, it decided the whole case.” T. Merrill, Article III, Agency Adjudication, and the Origins of the Appellate Review Model of Administrative Law, Colum. L. Rev. , , () (Merrill). This all-or- nothing model rested on a conceptual distinction between core private rights, on the one hand, and mere public rights and governmental privileges, on the other. “Disposition of private rights to life, liberty, and property” was understood to “fal[l] within the core of the judicial power, whereas dispo- sition of public rights [was] not.” Wellness Int'l Network, Ltd. v. Sharif, U. S. , () (Thomas, J., dis- senting). Thus, “[t]he measure of judicial involvement was private right. In particular, the extent to which the judi- Deferential review of the SEC's and FTC's decisions is particularly concerning given their tendency to overwhelmingly agree with their re- spective agency's decisions. See F. d , (CA ) (“FTC has not lost a single case [in administrative proceedings] in the past quarter- century. Even the Miami Dolphins would envy that type of record”); Brief for Respondent in No. –, p. (noting that, between October and March , SEC won more than % of cases brought before its ALJs as compared to % of cases brought before federal courts). Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Thomas, J., concurring ciary reviewed actions and legal determinations of the execu- tive depended on private right.” J. Harrison, Jurisdiction, Congressional Power, and Constitutional Remedies, Geo. L. J. , () (footnote omitted). Even today, the distinction “between `public rights' and `private rights' ” con- tinues to inform this Court's understanding of “Article III judicial power.” Oil States Energy Services, LLC v. Greene's Energy Group, LLC, U. S. –––, ––– (). As I have explained, when private rights are at stake, full Article III adjudication is likely required. Private rights encompass “the three `absolute' rights,” life, liberty, and property, “so called because they `appertain and belong to particular men merely as individuals,' not `to them as mem- bers of society or standing in various relations to each other'—that is, not dependent upon the will of the govern- ment.” Wellness Int'l Network, U. S., at – (dis- senting opinion) (quoting W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England (); alterations omitted). Such rights could be adjudicated and divested only by Article III courts. See U. S., at (“[A]n exercise of the judicial power is required `when the government wants to act au- thoritatively upon core private rights that had vested in a particular individual' ” (quoting C. Nelson, Adjudication in the Political Branches, Colum. L. Rev. , () (Nelson); alteration omitted)); see also J. Mascott, Constitu- tionally Conforming Agency Adjudication, Loyola U. Chi. J. Reg. Compliance , () (Mascott) (“Cases involving . . . deprivations or transfers of life, liberty, or property con- This also helps to explain why, in Marbury v. Madison, Cranch (), Chief Justice Marshall found it necessary to frst determine whether Marbury was “entitled to the possession of those evidences of offce, which, being completed, became his property.” Id., at (empha- sis added). Only once it was established that a vested property right was at stake did the Court determine the remaining issues. Marbury thus “stand[s] for the importance of private right.” Harrison, Geo. L. J., at , n. . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring stitute a `core' of cases that . . . must be resolved by Article III courts—not executive adjudicators `dressed up as courts' ”). A different regime prevailed for public rights and privi- leges. Unlike “the private unalienable rights of each indi- vidual,” Lansing v. Smith, Wend. , (N. Y. ), public rights “belon[g] to the people at large,” and governmental privileges are “created purely for reasons of public policy and . . . ha[ve] no counterpart in the Lockean state of na- ture.” Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. v. Sandoz, Inc., U. S. , , n. () (Thomas, J., dissenting) (inter- nal quotation marks omitted). It was understood at the founding that such governmental privileges (some of which we today call Government benefts and entitlements) “could be taken away without judicial process.” Sessions v. Di- maya, U. S. –––, ––– () (Thomas, J., dissenting); see also Mascott . Thus, “the legislative and executive branches may dispose of public rights [and privileges] at will—including through non-Article III adjudications.” Wellness Int'l Network, U. S., at (Thomas, J., dissenting). B The requirement of plenary Article III adjudication of pri- vate rights began to change in the early th century. As notions of administrative effciency came into vogue, courts were viewed less as guardians of core private rights and more as impediments to expert administrative adjudication. See F. th , (CA ) (Oldham, J., concurring). After his election in , President Theodore Roosevelt, who “shared the progressive faith in administrative exper- tise,” sought to “rei[n] in judicial review” of administrative action. Merrill . This progressive sentiment led to the Hepburn Act, Stat. , which was designed to curb judi- cial review of Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) rate orders. Prior to the Hepburn Act, the ICC was required to fle a bill of equity in court to obtain judicial enforcement of its rate orders. Merrill . But, the Hepburn Act pro- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Thomas, J., concurring vided that the ICC's “orders were to be self-executing thirty days after they became fnal, unless `suspended or set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction' ”—almost inverting the traditional system. Ibid. (quoting Stat. ). While the Act was silent on the standard of review, this Court under- stood “the implied threat that if [it] did not back off from its aggressive review practices, more drastic action would be in the offng.” Merrill . Accordingly, the Court began to develop what is now known as the “appellate review model.” See id., at –. While maintaining that the courts must decide “all relevant questions of constitutional power or right” and other ques- tions of law, ICC v. Illinois Central R. Co., U. S. , (), the Court held that an ICC order “supported by evidence” must be “accepted as fnal,” ICC v. Union Pacifc R. Co., U. S. , (). Following the Court's lead, Congress codifed the appellate review model in the two stat- utes at issue here. The Federal Trade Commission Act pro- vided that “the fndings of the commission as to the facts, if supported by testimony, shall in like manner be conclusive” in federal court. Stat. (codifed, as amended, at U. S. C. § (c)). The Securities Exchange Act of like- wise provided that the SEC's fndings “shall be conclusive” “if supported by substantial evidence.” Stat. (codi- fed, as amended, at U. S. C. § y). In the s, this Court upheld the constitutionality of the appellate review model against arguments that it violated the separation of powers and Seventh Amendment. First, in Crowell v. Benson, U. S. (), the Court examined the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, which authorized administrative agencies to adjudicate workers' compensation claims against private parties. The Court acknowledged that the case was “one of private right,” id., at , but held that Congress had the authority to place primary factfnding authority in an administrative agency, id., at . It reasoned that such a scheme did not violate Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring Article III because “Congress has considerable power to structure [judicial] proceedings and to regulate the mecha- nisms that courts use to ascertain facts.” Nelson . Next, in NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., U. S. (), the Court examined the National Labor Relations Act's judicial review provisions, which required an Article III court to accept the National Labor Relations Board's fac- tual fndings so long as they were “supported by evidence” in the administrative record. Stat. . The Court held that this arrangement did not violate the Seventh Amend- ment, which provides that “[i]n Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved.” The Court rea- soned that, “because claims seeking statutory remedies for violations of the Act were `statutory proceedings' that were `unknown to the common law,' they were not `suits at com- mon law' within the meaning of the Seventh Amendment.” Nelson (quoting Jones & Laughlin, U. S., at ; alter- ations omitted). These cases solidifed administrative agen- cies' authority “to act as factfnding adjuncts to the federal judiciary on a broad array of statutory claims, including claims for monetary relief.” Nelson . II As I have previously explained, “[b]ecause federal admin- istrative agencies are part of the Executive Branch, it is not clear that they have power to adjudicate claims involving The Court has further blurred the line between adjudications that re- quire Article III courts and those that do not by equating mere Govern- ment benefts and entitlements with core private rights. See, e. g., Gold- berg v. Kelly, U. S. , – () (holding that due process rights attach to the deprivation of Government benefts); see also id., at , n. (“It may be realistic today to regard welfare entitlements as more like `property' than a `gratuity.' . . . It has been aptly noted that `society today is built around entitlement' ” (quoting C. Reich, Individual Rights and So- cial Welfare: The Emerging Legal Issues, Yale L. J. , (); alteration omitted)). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Thomas, J., concurring core private rights.” B&B Hardware, Inc. v. Hargis Indus- tries, Inc., U. S. , () (dissenting opinion). The “appellate review model” of agency adjudication thus raises serious constitutional concerns. It may violate the separation of powers by placing adjudicatory authority over core private rights—a judicial rather than executive power— within the authority of Article II agencies. See ibid. (“To the extent that administrative agencies could, consistent with the Constitution, function as courts, they might only be able to do so with respect to claims involving public or quasi- private rights”). It may violate Article III by compelling the Judiciary to defer to administrative agencies regarding matters within the core of the Judicial Vesting Clause. See P. Hamburger, Is Administrative Law Unlawful? () (Hamburger) (explaining that, traditionally, “even at the be- hest of Congress, the judges could not defer to the executive record or the facts supposedly established by it, lest they abandon their offce of independent judgment and the offce of juries to decide the facts”). And, it may violate due proc- ess by empowering entities that are not courts of competent jurisdiction to deprive citizens of core private rights. See B&B Hardware, U. S., at (Thomas, J., dissenting) (“[H]owever broadly `court of competent jurisdiction' was defned, it would require quite a leap to say that the concept encompasses administrative agencies, which were recognized as categorically different from courts” (alteration omitted)); see also Hamburger (“The guarantee of due process . . . bars the government from holding subjects to account out- side courts and their processes”). Finally, the appellate re- view model may run afoul of the Seventh Amendment by allowing an administrative agency to adjudicate what may be core private rights without a jury. See Tull v. United States, U. S. , () (explaining that the Seventh Amendment ensures the right to a jury trial for all adjudica- tions “analogous to `Suits at common law' ”). It is no answer that an Article III court may eventually review the agency order and its factual fndings under a def- Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring erential standard of review. In fact, there seems to be no basis for treating factfnding differently from deciding ques- tions of law. Both are at the core of judicial power, as Arti- cle III itself acknowledges. See § , cl. (providing that this Court's appellate jurisdiction is “both as to Law and Fact”); see also Stern v. Marshall, U. S. , (). For much of the Nation's history, it was understood that Arti- cle III precluded “the political branches” from exercising “power over the determination of individualized adjudicative facts when core private rights were at stake.” Nelson (emphasis deleted); see also Hamburger . It is obvious that Article III “would not be satisfed if Congress provided for judicial review but ordered the courts to affrm the agency no matter what.” G. Lawson, The Rise and Rise of the Administrative State, Harv. L. Rev. , () (Lawson). And, “[t]here is no reason to think that it is any different if Congress instead simply orders courts to put a thumb (or perhaps two forearms) on the agency's side of the scale.” Id., at –. Such a regime “allows a mere party to supplant a jury as the court's fact fnder,” Ham- burger , and it “effectively vest[s] the judicial power either in the agency or in Congress,” Lawson . It thus appears likely that, “when agency adjudicators stray outside the proper limits of executive adjudication such as by depriv- ing individuals of vested property rights, they must not serve even as fact-fnders subject to judicial deference.” Mascott (footnote omitted). In sum, whether any form of administrative adjudication is constitutionally permissible likely turns on the nature of the right in question. If private rights are at stake, the Constitution likely requires plenary Article III adjudication. Conversely, if privileges or public rights are at stake, Con- gress likely can foreclose judicial review at will. III The rights at issue in these cases appear to be core private rights that must be adjudicated by Article III courts. For Page Proof Pending Publication AXON ENTERPRISE, INC. v. FTC Gorsuch, J.,