not asked this Court (or any court) to treat putative harms to out-of-state animal welfare or other noneconomic interests as freestanding harms cognizable under the dormant Com- merce Clause. Nor could they have proceeded otherwise. Our decisions have authorized claims alleging “burdens on commerce.” Davis, U. S., at . They do not provide judges “a roving license” to reassess the wisdom of state legislation in light of any conceivable out-of-state interest, economic or otherwise. United Haulers, U. S., at . V Before the Constitution's passage, Rhode Island imposed special taxes on imported “New-England Rum”; Connecticut levied duties on goods “brought into th[e] State, by Land or Water, from any of the United States of America”; and Vir- ginia taxed “vessels coming within th[e S]tate from any of the United States.” An Act Laying Certain Duties of Ex- cise Upon Certain Articles, Feb. , R. I. Acts and Re- solves ; An Act for Levying and Collecting a Duty on Cer- tain Articles of Goods, Wares and Merchandize Imported into this State, by Land or Water, Conn. Acts and Laws Both dissents seek to characterize today's decision as “fractured” in an effort to advance their own overbroad readings of Pike and layer their own gloss on opinions they do not join. Post, at , (opinion of Kava- naugh, J.); see also post at –, – (opinion of Roberts, C. J.). But the dissents are just that—dissents. Their glosses do not speak for the Court. Today, the Court unanimously disavows petitioners' “almost per se” rule against laws with extraterritorial effects. See Parts II and III, supra. When it comes to Pike, a majority agrees that heartland Pike cases seek to smoke out purposeful discrimination in state laws (as illumi- nated by those laws' practical effects) or seek to protect the instrumentali- ties of interstate transportation. See Part IV–A, supra. A majority also rejects any effort to expand Pike's domain to cover cases like this one, some of us for reasons found in Part IV–B, others of us for reasons dis- cussed in Part IV–C. Today's decision depends equally on the analysis found in both of these sections; without either, there is no explaining the Court's judgment affrming the decision below. A majority also sub- scribes to what follows in Part V. NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ; An Act to Amend the Act for Ascertaining Certain Taxes and Duties, and for Establishing a Permanent Reve- nue (May , ), in Statues at Large, Laws of Virginia (W. Hening ed. ). Whether moved by this experience or merely worried that more States might join the bandwagon, the Framers equipped Congress with considerable power to regulate in- terstate commerce and preempt contrary state laws. See U. S. Const., Art. I, § , cl. ; Art. IV, § ; see also Regan, Mich. L. Rev., at , n. ; A. Abel, The Commerce Clause in the Constitutional Convention and in Contemporary Com- ment, Minn. L. Rev. , – (). In the years since, this Court has inferred an additional judicially enforce- able rule against certain, especially discriminatory, state laws adopted even against the backdrop of congressional si- lence. But “ `extreme caution' ” is warranted before a court deploys this implied authority. Tracy, U. S., at (quoting Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. Minnesota, U. S. , () (Black, J., concurring)). Preventing state offcials from enforcing a democratically adopted state law in the name of the dormant Commerce Clause is a matter of “ex- treme delicacy,” something courts should do only “where the infraction is clear.” Conway v. Taylor's Executor, Black , (). Petitioners would have us cast aside caution for boldness. They have failed—repeatedly—to persuade Congress to use its express Commerce Clause authority to adopt a uniform rule for pork production. And they disavow any reliance on this Court's core dormant Commerce Clause teachings fo- cused on discriminatory state legislation. Instead, petition- ers invite us to endorse two new theories of implied judicial power. They would have us recognize an “almost per se” rule against the enforcement of state laws that have “extra- territorial effects”—even though this Court has recognized since Gibbons that virtually all state laws create ripple ef- fects beyond their borders. Alternatively, they would have Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Sotomayor, J., concurring in part us prevent a State from regulating the sale of an ordinary consumer good within its own borders on nondiscriminatory terms—even though the Pike line of cases they invoke has never before yielded such a result. Like the courts that faced this case before us, we decline both of petitioners' in- cautious invitations. The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is Affrmed. Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan joins, concurring in part. I join all but Parts IV–B and IV–D of Justice Gorsuch's opinion. Given the fractured nature of Part IV, I write sep- arately to clarify my understanding of why petitioners' Pike claim fails. In short, I vote to affrm the judgment because petitioners fail to allege a substantial burden on interstate commerce as required by Pike, not because of any fundamen- tal reworking of that doctrine. * * * In Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. (), the Court distilled a general principle from its prior cases. “Where [a] statute regulates even-handedly to effectuate a legitimate local public interest, and its effects on interstate commerce are only incidental, it will be upheld unless the burden imposed on such commerce is clearly excessive in re- lation to the putative local benefts.” Id., at . Further, “the extent of the burden that will be tolerated will of course depend on the nature of the local interest involved, and on whether it could be promoted as well with a lesser impact on interstate activities.” Ibid. As the Court's opinion here explains, Pike's balancing and tailoring principles are most frequently deployed to detect the presence or absence of latent economic protectionism. See ante, at –. That is no surprise. Warding off state discrimination against interstate commerce is at the Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Sotomayor, J., concurring in part heart of our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. See ante, at , –, –. As the Court's opinion also acknowledges, however, the Court has “generally le[ft] the courtroom door open” to claims premised on “even nondiscriminatory burdens.” De- partment of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , (); see ante, at . Indeed, “a small number” of this Court's cases in the Pike line “have invalidated state laws . . . that appear to have been genuinely nondiscriminatory” in nature. General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , , n. (); see ante, at . Often, such cases have ad- dressed state laws that impose burdens on the arteries of commerce, on “trucks, trains, and the like.” Ibid., n. . Yet, there is at least one exception to that tradition. See Edgar v. MITE Corp., U. S. , – () (invali- dating a nondiscriminatory state law that regulated tender offers to shareholders). Pike claims that do not allege discrimination or a burden on an artery of commerce are further from Pike's core. As The Chief Justice recognizes, however, the Court today does not shut the door on all such Pike claims. See ante, at –, and n. ; post, at –. Thus, petitioners' fail- ure to allege discrimination or an impact on the instrumen- talities of commerce does not doom their Pike claim. Nor does a majority of the Court endorse the view that judges are not up to the task that Pike prescribes. Justice Gorsuch, for a plurality, concludes that petitioners' Pike claim fails because courts are incapable of balancing eco- nomic burdens against noneconomic benefts. See ante, at –. I do not join that portion of Justice Gorsuch's opinion. I acknowledge that the inquiry is diffcult and deli- cate, and federal courts are well advised to approach the matter with caution. See ante, at . Yet, I agree with The Chief Justice that courts generally are able to weigh disparate burdens and benefts against each other, and that they are called on to do so in other areas of the law with Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., concurring in part some frequency. See post, at –. The means-ends tailoring analysis that Pike incorporates is likewise familiar to courts and does not raise the asserted incommensurability problems that trouble Justice Gorsuch. In my view, and as Justice Gorsuch concludes for a sepa- rate plurality of the Court, petitioners' Pike claim fails for a much narrower reason. Reading petitioners' allegations in light of the Court's decision in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. (), the complaint fails to allege a substantial burden on interstate commerce. See ante, at –. Alleging a substantial burden on interstate com- merce is a threshold requirement that plaintiffs must satisfy before courts need even engage in Pike's balancing and tai- loring analyses. Because petitioners have not done so, they fail to state a Pike claim. Justice Barrett, concurring in part. A state law that burdens interstate commerce in clear ex- cess of its putative local benefts funks Pike balancing. Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. , (). In most cases, Pike's “general rule” refects a commonsense principle: Where there's smoke, there's fre. Ibid. Under our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence, one State may not discriminate against another's producers or consumers. A law whose burdens fall incommensurately and inexplicably on out-of-state interests may be doing just that. But to weigh benefts and burdens, it is axiomatic that both must be judicially cognizable and comparable. See Depart- ment of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , – (). I agree with Justice Gorsuch that the benefts and burdens of Proposition are incommensurable. Cali- fornia's interest in eliminating allegedly inhumane products from its markets cannot be weighed on a scale opposite dol- lars and cents—at least not without second-guessing the moral judgments of California voters or making the kind of policy decisions reserved for politicians. Ante, at –; Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. Davis, U. S., at (Scalia, J., concurring in part). None of our Pike precedents requires us to attempt such a feat. That said, I disagree with my colleagues who would hold that petitioners have failed to allege a substantial burden on interstate commerce. Ante, at –; ante, at (So- tomayor, J., concurring in part). The complaint plausibly alleges that Proposition 's costs are pervasive, burden- some, and will be felt primarily (but not exclusively) outside California. See post, at – (Roberts, C. J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For this reason, I do not join Part IV–C of Justice Gorsuch's opinion. If the bur- dens and benefts were capable of judicial balancing, I would permit petitioners to proceed with their Pike claim. Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Alito, Justice Kavanaugh, and Justice Jackson join, concurring in part and dissenting in part. I agree with the Court's view in its thoughtful opinion that many of the leading cases invoking the dormant Commerce Clause are properly read as invalidating statutes that pro- moted economic protectionism. See ante, at –. I also agree with the Court's conclusion that our precedent does not support a per se rule against state laws with “extra- territorial” effects. See ante, at –. But I cannot agree with the approach adopted by some of my colleagues to analyzing petitioners' claim based on Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. , (). See ante, at – (majority opinion); ante, at – (opinion of Gorsuch, J.); ante, at (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part); ante, at – (Barrett, J., concurring in part). Pike provides that nondiscriminatory state regulations are valid under the Commerce Clause “unless the burden im- posed on [interstate] commerce is clearly excessive in rela- tion to the putative local benefts.” U. S., at . A majority of the Court thinks that petitioners' complaint does not make for “an auspicious start” on that claim. Ante, at Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. . In my view, that is through no fault of their own. The Ninth Circuit misapplied our existing Pike jurisprudence in evaluating petitioners' allegations. I would fnd that peti- tioners have plausibly alleged a substantial burden against interstate commerce, and would therefore vacate the judg- ment and remand the case for the court below to decide whether petitioners have stated a claim under Pike. I The Ninth Circuit stated that “[w]hile the dormant Com- merce Clause is not yet a dead letter, it is moving in that direction.” F. th , (). Today's majority does not pull the plug. For good reason: Although Pike is susceptible to misapplication as a freewheeling judicial weighing of benefts and burdens, it also refects the basic concern of our Commerce Clause jurisprudence that there be “free private trade in the national marketplace.” General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , () (quoting Reeves, Inc. v. Stake, U. S. , ()); see also Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm'n, U. S. , () (Pike protects “a national `common market' ”). “Our system, fostered by the Commerce Clause, is that every farmer and every craftsman shall be encouraged to produce by the certainty that he will have free access to every mar- ket in the Nation, that no home embargoes will withhold his exports, and no foreign state will by customs duties or regulations exclude them.” H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond, U. S. , (). The majority's discussion of our Pike jurisprudence high- lights two types of cases: those involving discriminatory state laws and those implicating the “instrumentalities of in- terstate transportation.” Ante, at , n. . But Pike has not been so narrowly typecast. As a majority of the Court acknowledges, “we generally leave the courtroom door open to plaintiffs invoking the rule in Pike, that even nondiscrimi- natory burdens on commerce may be struck down on a show- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. ing that those burdens clearly outweigh the benefts of a state or local practice.” Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , (); see also United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, U. S. , () (plurality opinion) (Pike applies to “a nondiscriminatory statute like this one”). Nor have our cases applied Pike only where a State regulates the instrumentalities of transportation. Pike itself addressed an Arizona law regulating cantaloupe packaging. See U. S., at . And we have since applied Pike to invalidate nondis- criminatory state laws that do not concern transportation. Edgar v. MITE Corp., U. S. , – (). As a majority of the Court agrees, Pike extends beyond laws either concerning discrimination or governing interstate transportation. See ante, at (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); post, at (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part and dissent- ing in part). Speaking for three Members of the Court, Justice Gor- such objects that balancing competing interests under Pike is simply an impossible judicial task. See ante, at –. I certainly appreciate the concern, see United Haulers, U. S., at , , but sometimes there is no avoiding the need to weigh seemingly incommensurable values. See, e. g., Schneider v. State (Town of Irvington), U. S. , () (weighing “the purpose to keep the streets clean and of good appearance” against the “the constitutional pro- tection of the freedom of speech and press”); Winston v. Lee, U. S. , () (“The reasonableness” under the Fourth Amendment “of surgical intrusions beneath the skin depends on a case-by-case approach, in which the individual's interests in privacy and security are weighed against soci- ety's interests in conducting the procedure.”); Addington v. Texas, U. S. , () (“In considering what stand- ard should govern in a civil commitment proceeding, we must assess both the extent of the individual's interest in not being involuntarily confned indefnitely and the state's interest in Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. committing the emotionally disturbed under a particular standard of proof.”). Here too, a majority of the Court agrees that it is possible to balance benefts and burdens under the approach set forth in Pike. See ante, at – (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); post, at (opinion of Kavanaugh, J.). II This case comes before us on a Federal Rule of Civil Proce- dure (b)() motion to dismiss, and in my view the court below erred in how it analyzed petitioners' allegations under Pike. The Ninth Circuit reasoned that “[f]or dormant Com- merce Clause purposes, laws that increase compliance costs, without more, do not constitute a signifcant burden on inter- state commerce.” F. th, at . The panel then dis- missed petitioners' claim under Pike by concluding that the complaint alleged only an increase in compliance costs due to Proposition . F. th, at . But, as I read it, the complaint alleges more than simply an increase in “compli- ance costs,” unless such costs are defned to include all the fallout from a challenged regulatory regime. Petitioners identify broader, market-wide consequences of compliance— economic harms that our precedents have recognized can amount to a burden on interstate commerce. I would there- fore fnd that petitioners have stated a substantial burden against interstate commerce, vacate the judgment below, and remand this case for the Ninth Circuit to consider whether petitioners have plausibly claimed that the burden alleged outweighs any “putative local benefts” under Pike. U. S., at . A Our precedents have long distinguished the costs of com- plying with a given state regulation from other economic harms to the interstate market. Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines, Inc., U. S. (), illustrates the point. In that case, we considered an Illinois law requiring that trucks and trailers use a particular kind of mudguard. The “cost NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. of installing” the mudguards was “$ or more per vehicle,” amounting to “$, to $,” for the trucking companies at issue. Id., at . But beyond documenting those direct costs of complying with the Illinois law, we also noted other derivative harms fowing from the regulation. The mud- guard rule threatened “signifcant delay in an operation where prompt movement may be of the essence.” Id., at . Also, changing mudguard types when crossing into Il- linois from a State with a different standard would require “two to four hours of labor” and could prove “exceedingly dangerous.” Ibid. We concluded that “[c]ost taken into consideration” together with those “other factors” could con- stitute a burden on interstate commerce. Id., at (em- phasis added). Subsequent cases followed Bibb's logic by analyzing economic impact to the interstate market sepa- rately from immediate costs of compliance. See Kassel v. Consolidated Freightways Corp. of Del., U. S. , () (plurality opinion) (separating “increas[ed] . . . costs” from the fact that the challenged “law may aggravate . . . the problem of highway accidents” in describing the burden on interstate commerce); Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice, U. S. , , and n. () (analyzing an in- crease in “cost” independently of other consequential effects, such as “slow[ing] the movement of goods”). Pike itself did not confate harms to the interstate market with compliance costs. In Pike, we analyzed an Arizona law requiring that cantaloupes grown in the State be packed prior to shipment across state lines. U. S., at . We noted repeatedly that the regulation would require the ap- pellee to construct an unneeded packing facility in Arizona at a cost of $,. Id., at , , . But we consid- ered that cost together with the “nature” of a regulation “requiring business operations to be performed in the home State.” Id., at . The Court in Pike found both compli- ance costs and consequential market harms cognizable in de- termining whether the law at issue impermissibly burdened interstate commerce. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. The derivative harms we have long considered in this con- text are in no sense “noneconomic.” Ante, at (opinion of Gorsuch, J.). Regulations that “aggravate . . . the prob- lem of highway accidents,” Kassel, U. S., at , or “slow the movement of goods,” Rice, U. S., at , impose eco- nomic burdens, even if those burdens may be diffcult to quantify and may not arise immediately. Our cases provide no license to chalk up every economic harm—no matter how derivative—to a mere cost of compliance. Nor can the foregoing cases be dismissed because they either involved the instrumentalities of transportation or a state law born of discriminatory purpose. As discussed above, we have applied Pike to state laws that neither con- cerned transportation nor discriminated against commerce. See Edgar, U. S., at –. The Pike balance may well come out differently when it comes to interstate trans- portation, an area presenting a strong interest in “national uniformity.” Tracy, U. S., at , n. . But the error below does not concern a particular balancing of interests under Pike; it concerns how to analyze the burden on inter- state commerce in the frst place. B As in our prior cases, petitioners here allege both compli- ance costs and consequential harms to the interstate market. With respect to compliance costs, petitioners allege that Proposition demands signifcant capital expenditures for farmers who wish to sell into California. “Producers . . . will need to spend” between $ and $ million “of addi- tional capital in order to reconstruct their sow housing and overcome the productivity loss that Proposition imposes.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a. All told, compliance will “in- crease production costs per pig by over $ dollars per head, a .% cost increase at the farm level.” Ibid. Separate and apart from those costs, petitioners assert harms to the interstate market itself. The complaint alleges that the interstate pork market is so interconnected that pro- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. ducers will be “forced to comply” with Proposition , “even though some or even most of the cuts from a hog are sold in other States.” Id., at a, a. Proposition may not expressly regulate farmers operating out of state. But due to the nature of the national pork market, California has enacted rules that carry implications for producers as far fung as Indiana and North Carolina, whether or not they sell in California. The panel below acknowledged petition- ers' allegation that, “[a]s a practical matter, given the inter- connected nature of the nationwide pork industry, all or most hog farmers will be forced to comply with California require- ments.” F. th, at . We have found such sweeping extraterritorial effects, even if not considered as a per se invalidation, to be pertinent in applying Pike. In Edgar, we assessed the constitutionality of an Illinois corporate takeover statute that authorized the secretary of state to scrutinize tender offers, even for trans- actions occurring wholly beyond the State's borders. As the majority explains, only a plurality of the Court in Edgar concluded that the Illinois statute constituted a per se viola- tion of the dormant Commerce Clause. See ante, at , n. . But a majority in Edgar analyzed those same extrater- ritorial effects under our approach in Pike, concluding that the “nationwide reach” of Illinois's law constituted an “obvi- ous burden . . . on interstate commerce.” U. S., at . The Ninth Circuit did not consider whether, by effectively requiring compliance by farmers who do not even wish to ship their product into California, Proposition has a “nationwide reach” similar to the regulation at issue in Edgar. The complaint further alleges other harms that cannot fairly be characterized as mere costs of compliance but that the panel below seems to have treated as such. Because of Proposition 's square footage requirements, farms will be compelled to adopt group housing, which is likely to produce “worse health outcome[s]” and “sprea[d] pathogens and dis- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. ease.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a. Such housing changes will also “upen[d] generations of animal husbandry, training, and knowledge.” Id., at a. And “[b]y preventing the use of breeding stalls during the to day period between weaning and confrmation of pregnancy, Proposition puts sows at greater risk of injury and stress during the vulnera- ble stages of breeding and gestation.” Id., at a. These consequential threats to animal welfare and industry prac- tice are diffcult to quantify and are not susceptible to catego- rization as mere costs of compliance. Writing for a plurality of the Court, Justice Gorsuch relies on this Court's decision in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. (), to conclude that petitioners' complaint does not plead a substantial burden against inter- state commerce. See ante, at –; see also ante, at (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (also relying on Exxon). In Exxon, petroleum producers sued after Maryland prohibited their sale of retail gas within the State. U. S., at . The Court concluded that “interstate commerce is not sub- jected to an impermissible burden simply because an oth- erwise valid regulation causes some business[es] to shift from one interstate supplier to another.” Id., at . Fair enough. But the complaint before us pleads facts going far beyond the allegations in Exxon. The producers in Exxon operated within Maryland and wished to continue doing so. By contrast, petitioners here allege that Proposition will force compliance on farmers who do not wish to sell into the California market, exacerbate health issues in the national pig population, and undercut established operational prac- tices. In my view, these allegations amount to economic harms against “the interstate market”—not just “particular interstate frms,” ibid.—such that they constitute a substan- tial burden under Pike. At the very least, the harms al- leged by petitioners are categorically different from the cost of installing $ mudguards, Bibb, U. S., at , or of NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. constructing a $, cantaloupe packing facility, Pike, U. S., at . Justice Gorsuch asks what separates my approach from the per se extraterritoriality rule I reject. Ante, at . It is the difference between mere cross-border effects and broad impact requiring, in this case, compliance even by pro- ducers who do not wish to sell in the regulated market. And even then, we only invalidate a regulation if that burden proves “clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefts.” Pike, U. S., at . Adhering to that estab- lished approach in this case would not convert the inquiry into a per se rule against extraterritorial regulation. Rather than analyze petitioners' alleged harms to the in- terstate market on their own terms, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that the “crux” of the complaint is “the cost of compliance with Proposition .” F. th, at . Such “cost increases,” the panel below concluded, “do not qualify as a substantial burden to interstate commerce.” Ibid. Those statements ignore the industry-wide harms discussed above. The panel below itself recognized that petitioners “plausi- bly alleged that Proposition will have dramatic upstream effects and require pervasive changes to the pork production industry nationwide.” Ibid. Yet it nevertheless reduced the myriad harms detailed by petitioners in their complaint to so-called “compliance costs” and wrote them off as inde- pendently insuffcient to state a claim under Pike. Our precedents do not support such an approach. A majority of the Court agrees that—were it possible to balance benefts and burdens in this context—petitioners have plausibly stated a substantial burden against interstate commerce. See ante, at (opinion of Barrett, J.) (“The complaint plausibly alleges that Proposition 's costs are pervasive, burdensome, and will be felt primarily (but not exclusively) outside California.”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. ()