began aggressively enforcing FBAR penalties, “many expe- rienced tax professionals and return preparers were not aware of the FBAR reporting obligations,” let alone aware of the government's current theory about the scope of penal- ties for nonwillful violations. Brief for Center for Taxpayer Rights as Amicus Curiae , –, and n. . If many ex- perienced accountants were unable to anticipate the govern- ment's current theory, we do not see how “the common world” had fair notice of it. McBoyle, U. S., at . Second, the question before us has criminal as well as civil ramifcations. Section outlines civil penalties for non- willful and willful “violation[s]” of the BSA. Next door, § provides criminal sanctions for “willfully violating” the Act. The term “violation” or “violating” is a constant between these two provisions. Accordingly, if the govern- ment were right that violations accrue on a per-account rather than a per-report basis under § , the same rule would apply under § . Each willfully misstated or late- reported account, rather than each defcient or late-fled re- port, would give rise to a separate criminal violation carry- ing the possibility of a $, fne and fve years in prison. In a case like Mr. Bittner's, involving reports and ac- counts, that would mean a person who willfully violates the BSA could face a $ million fne and , years in prison rather than a $. million fne and years in prison. In these circumstances, the rule of lenity, not to mention a dose of common sense, favors a strict construction. See Leocal Page Proof Pending Publication v. Ashcroft, U. S. , , n. () (lenity applies when a disputed statutory provision has “both criminal and noncrim- inal applications”); see also FCC, U. S., at ; United States v. Thompson/Center Arms Co., U. S. , – () (plurality opinion). III Best read, the BSA treats the failure to fle a legally com- pliant report as one violation carrying a maximum penalty of $,, not a cascade of such penalties calculated on a BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Barrett, J., dissenting per-account basis. Because the Fifth Circuit thought other- wise, we reverse its judgment and remand the case for fur- ther proceedings consistent with this opinion. So ordered. Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Thomas, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting. Alexandru Bittner, an American citizen, held as much as $ million across more than bank accounts in Romania, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein.* He acknowledges that the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and its implementing regulations required him to report his interest in these accounts to the Federal Government annually. Bittner also admits that he failed to comply with that requirement for fve consecutive years. Because he failed to report accounts, the Gov- ernment concluded that he violated the law times and assessed a penalty for each violation. Bittner, on the other hand, argued that he violated the law just fve times—once for each annual form that he failed to fle. Page Proof Pending Publication The Court agrees with Bittner and holds that the failure to fle a legally compliant form is a single violation, no matter how many accounts a citizen fails to report. I respectfully disagree. The most natural reading of the statute estab- lishes that each failure to report a qualifying foreign account constitutes a separate reporting violation, so the Govern- ment can levy penalties on a per-account basis. I This case requires us to decide whether a violation of the BSA's reporting requirement is the failure to fle an annual form, or whether there is a separate violation for each indi- *In , for example, he held over $ million across foreign bank accounts. The pattern continued: $ million across accounts in , $ million across accounts in , $ million across accounts in , and $ million across accounts in . Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting vidual account that is not properly reported. The answer lies in the text of the relevant statutes, U. S. C. §§ and . The Government assessed penalties against Bitt- ner under § (a)()(A), which provides that “[t]he Secre- tary of the Treasury may impose a civil money penalty on any person who violates, or causes any violation of, any pro- vision of section .” Section , in turn, directs the Secretary to “require a . . . citizen of the United States . . . to keep records, fle reports, or keep records and fle reports, when the . . . person makes a transaction or maintains a relation for any person with a foreign fnancial agency.” § (a). The required “records and reports shall contain” certain information “in the way and to the extent the Secre- tary prescribes,” such as the identity, address, and legal capac- ity of the participants in a transaction or relationship. Ibid. The text of § indicates that its reporting requirement attaches to each individual account. Most notably, it pro- vides that the Secretary “shall require” a citizen to “fle re- ports” when he “maintains a relation . . . with a foreign f- nancial agency.” Ibid. The subject matter of the required reports, then, is “a relation” with a foreign fnancial agency— or, more colloquially, an account with a foreign bank. Ibid. In other words, each relation with a foreign bank triggers the requirement to fle reports. And because each relation is a matter of distinct concern under the statute, each failure to report an account violates the reporting requirement. Page Proof Pending Publication The enumerated list of information that the reports “shall contain” underscores the point. Ibid. That list includes in- formation like “the identity and address of participants in a . . . relationship,” “the legal capacity in which a participant” in a relationship “is acting,” and “the identity of real parties in interest.” §§ (a)()–(). Each listed item is account specifc because its contents can vary for each foreign ac- count held. And each failure to report an account thus de- prives the Government of the account-specifc information that the statute requires. BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Barrett, J., dissenting That is not all. Section authorizes the Secretary to impose a recordkeeping requirement in addition to a report- ing requirement. Recordkeeping violations cannot occur on a per-form basis because keeping records does not entail fl- ing a form. Instead, they occur on a per-account basis be- cause records naturally relate to specifc accounts. And if violations of § 's recordkeeping obligation accrue on a per-account basis, the same should be true of violations of § 's obligation to fle reports. The duties are parallel: Each kicks in “when” a citizen “maintains a relation” with a foreign fnancial agency, and each requires a person to collect the same account-specifc information. § (a). Parallel duties should be susceptible to parallel violations. The civil penalty provisions in § confrm this reading of the substantive obligations imposed by § . Recall that § allows the Secretary to “impose a civil money penalty on any person who violates, or causes any violation of, any provision of section .” § (a)()(A). The statute then proceeds to set the maximum penalty for non- willful violations, provide a reasonable cause exception for those same violations, and set the maximum penalty for will- ful violations. §§ (a)()(B)–(D). Throughout, Congress used the term “violation” in an account-specifc way. Page Proof Pending Publication Consider the reasonable cause exception. It provides that “[n]o penalty shall be imposed . . . with respect to any” non- willful “violation” of § if () “such violation was due to reasonable cause” and () “the balance in the account at the time of the transaction was properly reported.” § (a) ()(B)(ii) (emphasis added). By conditioning eligibility for the excuse on taking steps to report accurate information about a particular account, this language suggests that the underlying violation of § is similarly tied to a specifc account. After all, “if the exception for non-willful viola- tions applies on a per-account basis, then logically the viola- tions the exception forgives must arise on a per-account basis too.” F. th , – (CA ). Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting The willful penalty provisions sing the same tune. The maximum penalty for a willful violation is the greater of $, or, “in the case of a violation involving a failure to report the existence of an account or any identifying infor- mation required to be provided with respect to an account,” percent of “the balance in the account at the time of the violation.” §§ (a)()(C)(i), (D)(ii). “This language makes clear that a violation may involve `a failure to report the existence of' ” a particular account. United States v. Boyd, F. d , (CA ) (Ikuta, J., dissenting). By making the maximum penalty for a willful violation in some cases a function of “the balance in the account at the time of the violation,” the provision contemplates that discrete violations correspond to discrete accounts. § (a)()(D)(ii). This pattern matters. The “normal rule of statutory in- terpretation” is that “identical words used in different parts of the same statute are generally presumed to have the same meaning.” IBP, Inc. v. Alvarez, U. S. , (). If a “violation” of § has account-specifc connotations in the reasonable cause and willful penalty provisions, it follows that a “violation” of § has account-specifc connotations when it comes to nonwillful penalties too. Page Proof Pending Publication The Secretary's implementing regulations follow the BSA's lead. They require regulated persons to report the existence of each foreign fnancial account to the Government each year. Start with CFR § . (). It says that “[e]ach United States person having a fnancial interest in . . . a bank, securities, or other fnancial account in a for- eign country shall report such relationship to the Commis- sioner of Internal Revenue for each year in which such rela- tionship exists and shall provide such information as shall be specifed in a reporting form prescribed under U. S. C. to be fled by such persons.” § .(a) (emphasis added). The reporting form is known as an FBAR—a Re- port of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts. Ibid. A sep- BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Barrett, J., dissenting arate regulation establishes the deadline for reporting these relationships. “Reports required to be fled by § . shall be fled” by “June of each calendar year with re- spect to foreign fnancial accounts exceeding $, main- tained during the previous calendar year.” § .(c), as amended, Fed. Reg. (). Put together, these provisions impose a substantive obligation to report inter- ests in foreign bank accounts each year in which those inter- ests exist. See § . (referring to “accounts required by § . to be reported to the” Government). Notably, the regulations distinguish between the form used to report accounts and the reports themselves. See § .(d) (the “[r]eports required by” § . “shall be fled on forms prescribed by the Secretary” (emphasis added)); § .(e) (the “[f]orms to be used in making the reports required by” § . “may be obtained from” the Government (emphasis added)). This underscores that FBAR forms are not themselves the “reports” required by the statute; rather, they are the procedural mechanism used to implement the duty to report each foreign account. This distinction tracks § , which emphasizes a citizen's duty to fle “reports” but nowhere mentions FBARs—or, for that matter, forms of any sort. § (a). So far as § is con- cerned, the Secretary could have chosen a different mecha- nism to implement the statute. For instance, rather than instructing citizens to report all accounts on a single form, he could have instructed citizens to report each account on a separate form. And if the Secretary had taken that route, Bittner would be hard pressed to deny that he would have violated the statute times by failing to fle forms. That diffculty illustrates Bittner's fundamental misunder- standing of the account-specifc obligation imposed by § , which is indifferent to the mechanism by which the obliga- tion is discharged. Page Proof Pending Publication In the end, “the applicable statute and regulations make clear that any failure to report a foreign account is an inde- Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting pendent violation, subject to independent penalties.” Boyd, F. d, at – (Ikuta, J., dissenting). A person who fails to report multiple foreign accounts on a single annual form violates the BSA and its implementing regulations multi- ple times, not just once. So the Government was within its rights to assess a separate penalty against Bittner for each qualifying foreign account that he failed to report properly. II A The Court reads the relevant provisions differently. It reasons that the legal duty imposed by § is “the duty to fle reports.” Ante, at . In the Court's view, that “statu- tory obligation is binary”: “Either one fles a report `in the way and to the extent the Secretary prescribes,' or one does not.” Ante, at . So penalties for nonwillful violations must “accrue on a per-report, not a per-account, basis.” Ante, at . And because Bittner failed to fle timely FBARs for fve years, the Court concludes that he violated the law only fve times. Page Proof Pending Publication The Court's core error is to confate the reports referred to in § with the annual FBAR form. To reiterate, the two are distinct. And because the FBAR is not itself the statutorily required “report,” the Court's conclusion—that Bittner violated § just fve times because he untimely fled fve FBAR forms—does not follow. The BSA and its implementing regulations required Bittner to fle one report per year of each qualifying foreign fnancial account that he maintained. Each failure to report an account is a discrete violation regardless of whether the violations were clustered on a single form. The Court does not just misread § ; it misreads § too. It points out that account-specifc language is present in the reasonable cause and willful penalty provisions but absent in the provisions setting the nonwillful penalty. Be- cause “Congress generally acts intentionally when it uses BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Barrett, J., dissenting particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another,” Department of Homeland Security v. MacLean, U. S. , (), the Court takes the contrast as evidence that nonwillful penalties cannot apply on a per- account basis. Ante, at – (invoking the expressio unius canon). Not so. The expressio unius canon is a general rule, in- applicable where context suggests otherwise—as it does here. Congress capped the penalty for a nonwillful violation at a fat $,. § (a)()(B)(i). Because the penalty amount does not depend on the balance in an account, Con- gress had no reason to use account-specifc language. By contrast, the maximum penalty for a willful violation is the greater of $, or percent of the account balance at the time of the violation, and the reasonable cause exception lifts a penalty only if the account balance was properly re- ported. §§ (a)()(B)(ii), (C)(i), (D)(ii). Because the ap- plication of both provisions depends on the account balance, Congress needed to use account-specifc language. The rea- son why Congress included account-specifc language in only two of these three provisions is therefore readily apparent. Regardless, the variation in language does not do much for the Court. These provisions in § explain the vary- ing penalties that the Secretary may assess for a violation of § but do not alter the nature of the underlying con- duct that constitutes a violation. Boyd, F. d, at (Ikuta, J., dissenting). That conduct, as discussed, is ac- count specifc. Page Proof Pending Publication B The Court also invokes a handful of “contextual clues” to support its conclusion. Ante, at . None of these “clues” justifes a departure from the best reading of the text. Begin with the Government's guidance to the public about what the BSA requires. The Court identifes a handful of statements, primarily from Internal Revenue Service (IRS) fact sheets and form instructions, indicating that a failure to Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting fle an annual FBAR may result in a penalty of up to $,. The Court acknowledges that these materials do not control the analysis, yet it still goes on to suggest that they cut against the Government's interpretation. Ante, at –. I am surprised that the Court is moved by this administra- tive guidance. For one thing, even Bittner concedes that the materials do not speak directly to the question presented in this case: whether additional penalties may accrue when a person fails to report multiple accounts on a single form. Reply Brief ; Tr. of Oral Arg. –. For another, the Court neglects to mention administrative materials that en- dorse the Government's per-account interpretation. See, e. g., Brief for American College of Tax Counsel as Amicus Curiae , (identifying IRS staff guidance materials from and explaining that FBAR penalties may be as- sessed per account). But in any event, guidance materials add little, if anything, to the interpretive enterprise when the traditional tools of construction supply an answer. Page Proof Pending Publication The Court also highlights the Secretary's regulatory deci- sion to allow the rare covered person with or more foreign fnancial accounts to “only provide the number of fnancial accounts and certain other basic information on the report.” § .(g)(). According to the Court, this special rule is a knock against the Government's reading because it does not require detailed account-level information in such a fler's initial report. Ante, at . But the Secretary's accommodation does not advance the Court's cause. A person with or more accounts still “will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.” § .(g)(). And the Secretary's recordkeeping regula- tion requires covered persons to retain the same detailed information about each account that otherwise would be re- ported on the annual form. See § .. So a person with or more accounts violates the BSA for each account with a reporting or recordkeeping problem just the same as BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Barrett, J., dissenting a person with fewer than accounts. In both cases, the violation is the failure to report the account properly or to keep records of it. That consequence is consistent with the statute's purpose. In arguing otherwise, the Court leans on what the preamble does not say: “[T]hat Congress sought to maximize penal- ties for every nonwillful mistake.” Ante, at . Notably, though, the Court skims over what the preamble does say: that the BSA is designed to “require certain reports or rec- ords” that assist the Government in “criminal, tax, or regula- tory investigations” and in “intelligence or counterintelli- gence activities, including analysis, to protect against terrorism.” U. S. C. § (). When analyzing complex webs of money laundering or funding for international ter- rorism, knowing about every account matters—and lacking information about accounts is certainly more harmful to law enforcement than lacking information about account. See Brief for United States . Given the stated purpose, authorizing a penalty for each undisclosed account makes sense. Page Proof Pending Publication Finally, the Court insists that a per-account reading leads to absurd results. Its concerns range from the overstated to the incorrect, and they are in any event of limited rele- vance to the statutory interpretation question before us. First, the Court posits a comparison between a person who nonwillfully violates the law once by failing to report a single account with a balance of $ million and a person who non- willfully violates the law times by failing to report accounts with an aggregate balance of $,. Because the frst is subject to a maximum penalty of $, and the sec- ond is subject to a maximum penalty of $,, the Court concludes that there is an “incongruity” in the statutory scheme. Ante, at . But a person who violates the law many times might naturally pay a steeper price than a per- son who violates the law just once, regardless of the balances Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting in their unreported accounts. Indeed, the Court seems un- troubled by the incongruity that fows from its own reading: The Secretary is constrained by the same maximum penalty ($,) for a person who nonwillfully fails to report accounts on an annual FBAR as he is for a person who non- willfully fails to report just account. The per-form read- ing makes it diffcult for the Government to assess stiffer penalties for more serious noncompliance. Consider next the Court's claim that, on the Government's reading, those who willfully violate the law may face lower penalties than those who nonwillfully violate the law. Ibid. The Court provides the example of a person who holds $ million in a foreign account during the course of a year but withdraws those funds before the fling deadline and willfully fails to report the account. Under § (a)()(C), that per- son faces a maximum penalty of $,, while a person who nonwillfully fails to report accounts with an aggregate account balance of $, might face a penalty of up to $, under § (a)()(B)(i). This is not an apples-to- apples comparison: The frst person willfully violated the law once, while the second nonwillfully violated the law times. That the latter might face a higher penalty than the former is therefore beside the point. An actual apples-to-apples comparison shows that willful violators do face a much heav- ier fne: The maximum penalty for a single willful violation will always be at least times greater than the maximum penalty for a single nonwillful violation. See §§ (a) ()(B)(i), (C)(i). Page Proof Pending Publication III There is no denying that the Government opted to pursue a substantial penalty in this case: $, for each of Bitt- ner's alleged violations, for a total penalty of $. mil- lion. Yet while the statutory scheme allows for substantial penalties, it also offers a safe haven. No penalty shall be imposed for a nonwillful violation of § if () “such viola- BITTNER v. UNITED STATES Barrett, J., dissenting tion was due to reasonable cause” and () “the balance in the account at the time of the transaction was properly re- ported.” § (a)()(B)(ii). Bittner raised this defense below, and the Government conceded that he satisfed its second prong by properly re- porting the balances in his accounts on his late-fled FBARs. F. th, at , and n. . But the District Court and Court of Appeals both roundly rejected Bittner's argument that he had reasonable cause for failing to timely report his accounts. After evaluating the pertinent facts and circumstances, both courts concluded that Bittner “did not exercise ordinary business care and prudence in failing to fulfll his reporting obligations.” Id., at ; see also F. Supp. d , (ED Tex. ). On the contrary, Bittner “put no effort into ascertaining” those obligations despite operating as a sophis- ticated business professional who held “interests in dozens of companies, negotiated purchases of Romanian government assets, transferred his assets into holding companies, and concealed his earnings in `numbered accounts.' ” F. th, at . Bittner abandoned his reasonable cause argument when he came to this Court, so we have no occasion to con- sider its merit. Brief for Petitioner , n. . But the de- fense is available to litigants who can satisfy it. Page Proof Pending Publication * * * The most natural reading of the BSA and its implementing regulations establishes that a person who fails to report mul- tiple accounts on the prescribed reporting form violates the law multiple times, not just once. Because the Court de- clines to adopt that reading, I respectfully dissent. Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: None