Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. This case requires us to determine whether the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) properly exercised juris- diction over an unfair labor practices dispute. On one side were the Ohio National Guard, the Ohio Adjutant General, and the Ohio Adjutant General's Department (collectively petitioners or the Guard). On the other was the American Federation of Government Employees, Local , AFL– CIO (Union), which represents federal employees known as dual-status technicians who work in both civilian and mili- tary roles for the Guard. The Union petitioned the FLRA to resolve the dispute. But, under the Federal Service Labor-Management Rela- tions Statute (FSLMRS or Statute), the FLRA only has ju- risdiction over labor organizations and federal “agencies”— and petitioners insist that they are neither. U. S. C. § et seq. We hold, however, that petitioners act as a federal “agency” when they hire and supervise dual-status techni- cians serving in their civilian role. I A Enacted in , the FSLMRS establishes a comprehen- sive framework governing labor-management relations in federal agencies. It secures the right of “[e]ach employee” “to form, join, or assist any labor organization, or to refrain from any such activity, freely and without fear of penalty or reprisal.” § . And, it further guarantees that “each employee shall be protected in the exercise of such right.” Ibid. To that end, the FSLMRS provides for collective bargaining between federal agencies and their employees' unions, and it bars each from committing unfair labor prac- feld, Andrew J. Pincus, Paul W. Hughes, Michael B. Kimberly, and Eugene R. Fidell, pro se. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tices. See §§ () and (a)–(b). For example, an agency may not “interfere with, restrain, or coerce any em- ployee in the exercise by the employee of any right under” the Statute; “refuse to consult or negotiate in good faith with a labor organization as required by” the Statute; or “other- wise fail or refuse to comply with any provision of” the Statute. §§ (a)(), (), (). The Statute creates the FLRA and tasks it with adminis- tering this framework, including by investigating and adjudi- cating labor disputes. § (a)()(G); see also §§ and (a)(). It provides that the FLRA's general counsel “shall investigate” a charge against “any agency or labor or- ganization” and, if warranted, may issue a complaint call- ing for a hearing before the FLRA. §§ (a)()–(). The FLRA is then responsible for “conduct[ing] hearings and re- solv[ing such] complaints.” § (a)()(G). If the FLRA determines that an agency or a union has engaged in an unfair labor practice, it “may require” the entity “to cease and desist from violations of [the Statute] and require it to take any remedial action it considers appropriate.” § (g)(). This case concerns the Statute's application to a unique category of federal civil-service employees: dual-status tech- nicians working for the State National Guards. These “rare bird[s]” occupy both civilian and military roles. Babcock v. Kijakazi, U. S. –––, ––– (). They serve as “civil- ian employee[s]” engaged in “organizing, administering, instructing,” “training,” or “maintenance and repair of sup- plies” to assist the National Guard. U. S. C. § (a) ()(C); see U. S. C. §§ (a)()–(); Babcock, U. S., at –––. Yet, they must “as a condition of that employment . . . maintain membership in the [National Guard]” and wear a uniform while working. U. S. C. § (a)()(B); see U. S. C. §§ (b)()–(). Except when participating as Na- tional Guard members in part-time drills, training, or active- duty deployment, see U. S. C. §§ (a) and (g)(), dual- OHIO ADJUTANT GENERAL'S DEPT. v. FLRA Opinion of the Court status technicians work full time in a civilian capacity and receive federal civil-service pay. See Babcock, U. S., at ––– – –––; see also U. S. C. § (a). Importantly, under the Technicians Act of , each dual- status technician is considered “an employee of the Depart- ment of the Army or the Department of the Air Force, as the case may be, and an employee of the United States.” U. S. C. § (e). While it is state adjutants general who “employ and administer” dual-status technicians working for their respective State National Guard units, they can only do so pursuant to an express “designat[ion]” of authority by the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force. § (d); see also Dept. of the Army, S. Resor, Delegation of Authority Under the National Guard Technicians Act of (General Order No. , Dec. , ) (General Order No. ) (current order designating the relevant authority). B The parties' collective-bargaining relationship dates back to , when the Guard recognized the Union as the ex- clusive representative of its dual-status technicians. They have since negotiated a number of collective-bargaining agreements (CBAs), the most recent of which was signed in and expired in . As the expiration date neared, the Guard and the Union entered into negotiations for a new agreement. During this process, in March , they adopted a memorandum of understanding whereby the Ohio Adjutant General promised to abide by certain practices con- tained in the expired agreement. But, later that year, the Ohio Adjutant General's Department reversed course. It asserted that it was not bound by the expired CBA and did not consider itself bound by the FSLMRS when interacting with dual-status technicians. The Guard also sent letters to dual-status technician Union members, asking them to sub- mit the requisite forms to permit the deduction of Union dues from their pay. The letters advised that, if the techni- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court cians did not promptly submit the forms, the Guard would cancel dues deductions on their behalf. The Guard ulti- mately terminated dues withholding for technicians. The Union subsequently fled unfair labor practice charges with the FLRA. After investigating, the FLRA general counsel issued consolidated complaints against the “U. S. De- partment of Defense, Ohio National Guard,” alleging that the Guard had refused to negotiate in good faith and in- terfered with the exercise of employee rights under the Stat- ute through its treatment of technicians' dues deductions. App. . The Ohio Adjutant General and the Ohio Adjutant General's Department intervened on the side of the Ohio National Guard. Petitioners argued before the Administrative Law Judge that the Guard was not an “agency” and that dual-status technician bargaining-unit employees were not “employees” for purposes of the Statute. The Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended decision fnding that the FLRA had jurisdiction over the Guard, that the dual-status technicians had collective-bargaining rights under the Statute, and that the Guard's actions in repudiating the CBA violated the Stat- ute. It thus ordered petitioners to follow the mandatory terms of the CBA, bargain in good faith going forward, and reinstate Union dues withholding. A divided panel of the FLRA adopted the Administrative Law Judge's fndings, conclusions, and remedial order. The Guard petitioned for review in the U. S. Court of Ap- peals for the Sixth Circuit, which denied the petition. F. th (). The Sixth Circuit held that the Guard is an agency subject to the Statute when it operates in its ca- pacity as employer of dual-status technicians. The court further found that dual-status technicians are federal civilian employees with collective-bargaining rights under the Stat- ute. Thus, because the FLRA has authority to enforce those collective-bargaining rights, the court concluded that this dispute fell within its jurisdiction. Page Proof Pending Publication OHIO ADJUTANT GENERAL'S DEPT. v. FLRA Opinion of the Court We granted certiorari to consider whether the FLRA had jurisdiction over this labor dispute under the Statute. U. S. ––– (). II Under the FSLMRS, it is “an unfair labor practice for an agency” “to interfere with, restrain, or coerce any employee in the exercise by the employee of any right under” the Stat- ute. U. S. C. § (a)(). The FLRA's jurisdiction over this unfair labor practices dispute thus turns on whether petitioners are an “agency” for purposes of the Statute when they act in their capacities as supervisors of dual-status tech- nicians, a question bounded by a series of defned terms. The Statute defnes an “agency” as “an Executive agency,” with exceptions not relevant here. § (a)(). Then, the term “ `Executive agency,' ” as used in Title , “means an Executive department, a Government corporation, and an in- dependent establishment.” § . And each of those terms is separately defned: an “Executive departmen[t]” means each of Cabinet-level Departments, including “[t]he De- partment of Defense,” § ; a “ `Government corporation' means a corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United States,” § ; and an “ `independent establish- ment' means” “an establishment in the executive branch,” with exceptions not relevant here, “which is not an Execu- tive department, military department, Government corpora- tion, or part thereof, or part of an independent establish- ment,” § (). It is undisputed that the Guard is neither a “Government corporation” nor an “independent establish- ment,” leaving only “Executive department” at issue. We did not grant certiorari to consider petitioners' additional question presented, which disputed the constitutionality of the FLRA's authority to regulate the labor practices of state militia members who are not em- ployed in the service of the United States. Consequently, we address only the statutory question presented, and our holding is limited to the unique class of federal employees hired and supervised by state adju- tants general. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Petitioners work backwards through the links in the statu- tory chain. They argue that they are not an Executive de- partment because they are not listed among the Cabinet- level Departments specifed in § . Thus, they claim, they are not an “Executive agency” under § and, accordingly, do not qualify as an “agency” under the Statute. Respond- ents counter that the components, representatives, and agents of an agency may be required to comply with the Statute. And they emphasize that petitioners exercise fed- eral authority in employing dual-status technicians and must therefore comply with applicable federal law. Respondents have the better of the argument. A The Guard, when employing dual-status technicians, func- tions as an agency covered by the Statute. The Statute defnes “ `agency' ” to include the Department of Defense, one of the enumerated executive Departments in § . § (a)(); see §§ and . And, each dual-status “technician . . . is an employee of the Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force.” U. S. C. § (e); see also U. S. C. § (a)()(A). Those Depart- ments, in turn, are components of the Department of De- fense. U. S. C. §§ (b)() and (). And, components of covered agencies plainly fall within the Statute's reach. U. S. C. §§ (a)() (contemplating collective bargaining between “the representative of an agency” and “the exclu- sive representative of employees in an appropriate unit in the agency”) and (a) (contemplating the establishment of “appropriate” bargaining units “on an agency, plant, installa- tion, functional, or other basis”). Accordingly, when peti- tioners employ and supervise dual-status technicians, they— like components of an agency—exercise the authority of the Department of Defense, a covered agency. The statutory authority permitting the Adjutant General to employ dual-status technicians reinforces this point. Ad- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication OHIO ADJUTANT GENERAL'S DEPT. v. FLRA Opinion of the Court jutants general appoint dual-status technicians as civilian employees in the federal civil service. See U. S. C. § (a)()(F) (providing that the term “ `employee,' ” for purposes of Title , ordinarily includes “an individual . . . appointed in the [federal] civil service by . . . an adjutant general designated by the Secretary [of the Army or of the Air Force] under section [(d)] of title ”). And, Con- gress has required the Secretaries of the Army and Air Force to “designate” adjutants general “to employ and ad- minister” technicians. U. S. C. § (d). That designa- tion is the sole basis for petitioners' authority to employ technicians performing work in their federal civilian roles, confrming that petitioners act on behalf of—and exercise the authority of—a covered federal agency when they supervise dual-status technicians. Here, for example, a order of the Secretary of the Army “designate[s]” and “empower[s]” each adjutant general “to employ and administer the Army National Guard techni- cians authorized for his State . . . as the case may be.” Gen- eral Order No. , ¶. Accordingly, dual-status technicians are ultimately employees of the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force, and petitioners are the Secretaries' designees for purposes of dual-status technician employment. Should a state adjutant general wish to employ federal dual-status technicians, he must do so pursuant to delegated federal authority and subject to federal civil-service requirements. See U. S. C. § (a)()(F). Indeed, it would be passing strange if dual-status technicians, who qualify as employees under the Statute, were supervised by an entity not required to safeguard the rights guaranteed employees under the Statute. §§ (providing that “each employee shall be protected in the exercise of” his right to join or refrain from joining a labor association) and (a)()(A) (defning an “ `employee' ” as “an individual . . . employed in an agency”). The case caption in this matter refects the Guard's federal function with respect to hiring dual-status technicians; be- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court fore the FLRA, the case proceeded against the “U. S. De- partment of Defense, Ohio National Guard,” with the Adju- tant General and the Adjutant General's Department joining the suit later as intervenors. App. . Petitioners contend that federalism concerns require us to read the Statute to exempt them from the FLRA's jurisdic- tion. But, the FLRA enforces the rights and obligations of federal civilian employees and their agency employers. Be- cause adjutants general act on behalf of an agency of the Federal Government with respect to their supervision of ci- vilian technicians, their actions in that capacity do not impli- cate the balance between federal and state powers. See U. S. C. § (a); U. S. C. § (e). B The evolution of federal agency-employee relations law and the text of U. S. C. § (b), which functions as the Statute's saving clause, lend further support to the FLRA's exercise of authority over the Guard. Before the FSLMRS was adopted, “labor-management relations in the federal sec- tor were governed by a program established” by a series of Executive Orders “under which federal employees had lim- ited rights to engage in” collective bargaining. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms v. FLRA, U. S. , – (). The Statute's immediate predecessor, Executive Order No. , established the precursor to the current FLRA and listed prohibited unfair labor practices for both federal agency management and unions. See Exec. Order No. , CFR (– Comp.). When Congress later replaced that Executive Order with the FSLMRS, it explicitly continued many aspects of the pre-FSLMRS re- gime: “Policies, regulations, and procedures established under and decisions issued under Executive Orde[r] . . . shall remain in full force and effect until revised or revoked by the President, or unless superseded by specifc provisions of [the Statute] or by regulations or decisions issued pursu- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication OHIO ADJUTANT GENERAL'S DEPT. v. FLRA Opinion of the Court ant to [the Statute].” U. S. C. § (b). Thus, “decisions issued under Executive Orde[r] ” supply critical guid- ance regarding the FLRA's jurisdiction today. One such decision is directly on point. In the case of Mississippi National Guard, d Military Airlift Group (Thompson Field), Asst. Sec. Labor/Management Relations (A/SLMR) No. (Thompson Field), the Assistant Secre- tary of Labor—exercising adjudicative authority under Ex- ecutive Order No. analogous to the modern FLRA's— rejected arguments virtually identical to those petitioners advance here. See id., at (describing the state guard's ar- gument “that the provisions of Executive Order did not apply . . . because the employees involved are under the operational control of the Adjutant General of the State of Mississippi, who is appointed and employed pursuant to State law”). The Assistant Secretary reasoned “that Na- tional Guard technicians [were] employees within the mean- ing of” the Executive Order and “employees of the Federal government” under the Technicians Act. Id., at . The As- sistant Secretary then concluded that the adjutant general had “been designated as an agent of the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force” in employing and administering dual-status technicians and that this agency relationship created the obligation to comply with Executive Order No. . Id., at . The defnitions of “employee” and “agency” that Thomp- son Field examined under Executive Order No. were materially identical to those that Congress ultimately adopted in the FSLMRS. Compare U. S. C. §§ (a)()– () (defning “ `employee' ” as “an individual . . . employed in an agency,” and defining “ `agency' ” as “an Executive agency,” which § in turn defnes as an executive depart- ment, a Government corporation, and an independent estab- lishment) with Exec. Order No. , §§ (a)–(b) (defning “ `[e]mployee' ” primarily as “an employee of an agency,” and defning “ `[a]gency' ” as “an executive department, a Govern- Cite as: U. S. ()