Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Part III–B–.* In January , a three-judge District Court sitting in Alabama preliminarily enjoined the State from using the dis- tricting plan it had recently adopted for the congres- of Vermont, Robert W. Ferguson of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for Alabama Historians by Roy T. Englert, Jr., and Carolyn M. Forstein; for the American Bar Association by Reginald M. Turner, Mi- chael R. Dreeben, Ephraim McDowell, and Megan Whisler; for the Bren- nan Center for Justice by David A. O'Neil and Michael C. Li; for the Campaign Legal Center by Mark P. Gaber and Paul M. Smith; for the Central Alabama Fair Housing Center et al. by Rebecca Livengood and Gabriel Diaz; for Computational Redistricting Experts by Sam Hirsch and Jessica Ring Amunson; for the Constitutional Accountability Center by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and David H. Gans; for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by Damon T. Hew- itt, Jon M. Greenbaum, Ezra D. Rosenberg, and Sheila L. Birnbaum; for Local Governments by Joseph R. Palmore, Jonathan B. Miller, Anne L. Morgan, Mark D. Griffn, Kristin M. Bronson, Arturo G. Michel, Michael N. Feuer, Sylvia O. Hinds-Radix, Diana P. Cortes, Lyndsey M. Olson, and James R. Williams; for the National Congress of American Indians by Jacqueline De León, John E. Echohawk, Matthew Campbell, Colby Duren, and Michael B. de Leeuw; for Republican Former Governors by Kathleen Hartnett, Jonathan L. Williams, Adam S. Gershenson, Kristen A. Johnson, Christine P. Sun, and Ranjana Natarajan; for the Southern Poverty Law Center et al. by Noah N. Gillespie and Caren E. Short; for UCLA Social Scientists by Chad W. Dunn and Bernadette Reyes; for Vot- ing Rights Practitioners by Debo P. Adegbile and Edward Williams; for U. W. Clemon et al. by Jeffrey T. Green, Marisa West, and Naomi Igra; for Travis Crum by Demian A. Ordway and Mr. Crum, pro se; and for U. S. House Representative Terri Sewell et al. by John Paul Schnapper- Casteras and Carolyn E. Shapiro. Robert A. Atkins, Jonathan H. Hurwitz, Allison Riggs, and Mitchell Brown fled a brief for Press Robinson et al. as amici curiae urging af- frmance in No. –. Briefs of amici curiae were fled in both cases for the American Legisla- tive Exchange Council by Jonathon P. Hauenschild; for the Bipartisan Group of Senators et al. by Jeffrey P. Justman and Craig S. Coleman; for the Singleton Plaintiffs by James Uriah Blacksher, Joe R. Whatley, Jr., Henry C. Quillen, and Eli Hare; for Jowei Chen et al. by Ruth Greenwood and Theresa J. Lee; and for John Wahl by Albert L. Jordan. *Justice Kavanaugh joins all but Part III–B– of this opinion. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court sional elections, fnding that the plan likely violated Sec- tion of the Voting Rights Act, U. S. C. § . This Court stayed the District Court's order pending further re- view. U. S. ––– (). After conducting that review, we now affrm. I A Shortly after the Civil War, Congress passed and the States ratifed the Fifteenth Amendment, providing that “[t]he right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged . . . on account of race, color, or previ- ous condition of servitude.” U. S. Const., Amdt. , § . In the century that followed, however, the Amendment proved little more than a parchment promise. Jim Crow laws like literacy tests, poll taxes, and “good-morals” requirements abounded, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, U. S. , – (), “render[ing] the right to vote illusory for blacks,” Northwest Austin Municipal Util. Dist. No. One v. Holder, U. S. , – () (Thomas, J., concurring in judg- ment in part and dissenting in part). Congress stood up to little of it; “[t]he frst century of congressional enforcement of the [Fifteenth] Amendment . . . can only be regarded as a failure.” Id., at (majority opinion). That changed in . Spurred by the Civil Rights move- ment, Congress enacted and President Johnson signed into law the Voting Rights Act. Stat. , as amended, U. S. C. § et seq. The Act “create[d] stringent new remedies for voting discrimination,” attempting to forever “banish the blight of racial discrimination in voting.” Kat- zenbach, U. S., at . By , in only sixteen years' time, many considered the VRA “the most successful civil rights statute in the history of the Nation.” S. Rep. No. – , p. () (Senate Report). These cases concern Section of that Act. In its original form, “§ closely tracked the language of the [Fifteenth] Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Amendment” and, as a result, had little independent force. Brnovich v. Democratic National Committee, U. S. –––, ––– (). Our leading case on § at the time was City of Mobile v. Bolden, which involved a claim by black voters that the City's at-large election system effectively ex- cluded them from participating in the election of city com- missioners. U. S. (). The commission had three seats, black voters comprised one-third of the City's popula- tion, but no black-preferred candidate had ever won election. The Court ruled against the plaintiffs. The Fifteenth Amendment—and thus § —prohibits States from acting with a “racially discriminatory motivation” or an “invidious purpose” to discriminate. Id., at – (plurality opinion). But it does not prohibit laws that are discriminatory only in effect. Ibid. The Mobile plaintiffs could “register and vote without hindrance”—“their freedom to vote ha[d] not been denied or abridged by anyone.” Id., at . The fact that they happened to lose frequently was beside the point. Nothing the City had done “purposeful[ly] exclu[ded]” them “from participati[ng] in the election process.” Id., at . Almost immediately after it was decided, Mobile “pro- duced an avalanche of criticism, both in the media and within the civil rights community.” T. Boyd & S. Markman, The Amendments to the Voting Rights Act: A Legis- lative History, Wash. & Lee L. Rev. , () (Boyd & Markman). The New York Times wrote that the decision represented “the biggest step backwards in civil rights to come from the Nixon Court.” N. Y. Times, Apr. , , p. A. And the Washington Post described Mobile as a “major defeat for blacks and other minorities fghting electoral schemes that exclude them from offce.” Washing- As originally enacted, § provided that “[n]o voting qualifcation or prerequisite to voting, or standard, practice, or procedure shall be imposed or applied by any State or political subdivision to deny or abridge the right of any citizen of the United States to vote on account of race or color.” U. S. C. § ( ed.). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court ton Post, Apr. , , p. A. By focusing on discrimi- natory intent and ignoring disparate effect, critics argued, the Court had abrogated “the standard used by the courts to determine whether [racial] discrimination existed . . . : Whether such discrimination existed.” It's Results That Count, Philadelphia Inquirer, Mar. , , p. –A. But Mobile had its defenders, too. In their view, aban- doning the intent test in favor of an effects test would inevi- tably require a focus on proportionality—wherever a minor- ity group won fewer seats in the legislature than its share of the population, the charge could be made that the State law had a discriminatory effect. That, after all, was the type of claim brought in Mobile. But mandating racial propor- tionality in elections was regarded by many as intolerable. Doing so, wrote Senator Orrin Hatch in the Washington Star, would be “strongly resented by the American public.” Washington Star, Sept. , , p. A–. The Wall Street Journal offered similar criticism. An effects test would gen- erate “more, not less, racial and ethnic polarization.” Wall Street Journal, Jan. , , p. . This sharp debate arrived at Congress's doorstep in . The question whether to broaden § or keep it as is, said Hatch—by then Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee be- fore which § would be debated—“involve[d] one of the most substantial constitutional issues ever to come before this body.” Hearings before the Subcommittee on the Consti- tution of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, th Cong., d Sess., pt. , p. (). Proceedings in Congress mirrored the disagreement that had developed around the country. In April , Congress- man Peter W. Rodino, Jr.—longtime chairman of the House Judiciary Committee—introduced a bill to amend the VRA, proposing that the words “to deny or abridge” in § be re- placed with the phrase “in a manner which results in a de- nial or abridgement.” H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court (as introduced) (emphasis added). This was the effects test that Mobile's detractors sought. But those wary of proportionality were not far behind. Senator Hatch argued that the effects test “was intelligible only to the extent that it approximated a standard of pro- portional representation by race.” Boyd & Markman . The Attorney General had the same concern. The effects test “would be triggered whenever election results did not mirror the population mix of a particular community,” he wrote, producing “essentially a quota system for electoral politics.” N. Y. Times, Mar. , , p. . The impasse was not resolved until late April , when Senator Bob Dole proposed a compromise. Boyd & Mark- man . Section would include the effects test that many desired but also a robust disclaimer against propor- tionality. Seeking to navigate any tension between the two, the Dole Amendment borrowed language from a Fourteenth Amendment case of ours, White v. Regester, U. S. (), which many in Congress believed would allow courts to consider effects but avoid proportionality. The standard for liability in voting cases, White explained, was whether “the political processes leading to nomination and election were not equally open to participation by the group in ques- tion—[in] that its members had less opportunity than did other residents in the district to participate in the politi- cal processes and to elect legislators of their choice.” Id., at . The Dole compromise won bipartisan support and, on June , the Senate passed the amendments by an over- whelming margin, –. Eleven days later, President Reagan signed the Act into law. The amended § reads as follows: “(a) No voting qualifcation or prerequisite to voting or standard, practice, or procedure shall be imposed or applied by any State or political subdivision in a manner Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court which results in a denial or abridgement of the right of any citizen of the United States to vote on account of race or color . . . as provided in subsection (b). “(b) A violation of subsection (a) is established if, based on the totality of circumstances, it is shown that the political processes leading to nomination or election in the State or political subdivision are not equally open to participation by members of a class of citizens . . . in that its members have less opportunity than other members of the electorate to participate in the political process and to elect representatives of their choice. The extent to which members of a protected class have been elected to offce in the State or political subdivision is one circumstance which may be considered: Provided, That nothing in this section establishes a right to have members of a protected class elected in numbers equal to their proportion in the population.” U. S. C. § . B For the frst years following Reconstruction, the State of Alabama elected no black Representatives to Congress. See Singleton v. Merrill, F. Supp. d , (ND Ala. ) (per curiam). In , several plaintiffs sued the State, alleging that it had been impermissibly diluting the votes of black Alabamians in violation of § . See Wesch v. Hunt, F. Supp. , (SD Ala.). The lawsuit produced a majority-black district in Alabama for the frst time in decades. Id., at . And that fall, Birmingham lawyer Earl Hilliard became the frst black Representative from Alabama since . F. Supp. d, at . Alabama's congressional map has “remained remarkably similar” after Wesch. Brief for Appellants in No. – etc., p. (Brief for Alabama). The map contains seven con- gressional districts, each with a single representative. See Supp. App. –; F. Supp. d, at . District en- compasses the Gulf Coast region in the southwest; Dis- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court trict —known as the Wiregrass region—occupies the south- east; District covers the eastern-central part of the State; Districts and stretch width-wise across the north, with the latter layered atop the former; District is right in the State's middle; and District spans the central west. Id., at . In , the decennial census revealed that Alabama's pop- ulation had grown by .%. See App. . A group of plaintiffs led by Alabama legislator Bobby Singleton sued the State, arguing that the existing congressional map was malapportioned and racially gerrymandered in violation of the Equal Protection Clause. F. Supp. d, at –. While litigation was proceeding, the Alabama Legislature's Committee on Reapportionment began creating a new dis- tricting map. Ibid. Although the prior decade's population growth did not change the number of seats that Alabama would receive in the House, the growth had been unevenly distributed across the State, and the existing map was thus out of date. To solve the problem, the State turned to experienced mapmaker Randy Hinaman, who had created several dis- tricting maps that Alabama used over the past years. Id., at –. The starting point for Hinaman was the then-existing congressional map, itself a product of the map that Hinaman had also created. Civ. No. – (ND Ala.), ECF Doc. –, pp. , –; see also F. Supp. d, at . Hinaman worked to adjust the map in accordance with the redistricting guidelines set by the legislature's Reapportionment Committee. Id., at – ; App. . Those guidelines prioritized population equality, contiguity, compactness, and avoiding dilution of minority voting strength. F. Supp. d, at –. They also encouraged, as a secondary matter, avoiding in- cumbent pairings, respecting communities of interest, mini- mizing the number of counties in each district, and preserv- ing cores of existing districts. Id., at –. Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court The resulting map Hinaman drew largely resembled the map, again producing only one district in which black voters constituted a majority of the voting age population. Supp. App. –. The Alabama Legislature enacted Hi- naman's map under the name HB. F. Supp. d, at , –. Governor Ivey signed HB into law on Novem- ber , . Id., at . C Three groups of plaintiffs brought suit seeking to stop Ala- bama's Secretary of State from conducting congressional elections under HB. The frst group was led by Dr. Marcus Caster, a resident of Washington County, who challenged HB as invalid under § . Id., at –, . The second group, led by Montgomery County resident Evan Milligan, brought claims under § and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at –, . Finally, the Singleton plaintiffs, who had previously sued to enjoin Alabama's congressional map, amended their complaint to challenge HB as an impermissible racial gerrymander under the Equal Protection Clause. Id., at –. A three-judge District Court was convened, comprised of Circuit Judge Marcus and District Judges Manasco and Moorer. The Singleton and Milligan actions were consoli- dated before the three-judge Court for purposes of prelimi- nary injunction proceedings, while Caster proceeded before Judge Manasco on a parallel track. F. Supp. d, at – . A preliminary injunction hearing began on January , , and concluded on January . Id., at . In that time, the three-judge District Court received live testimony from witnesses, reviewed more than pages of briefng and upwards of exhibits, and considered arguments from the different lawyers who had appeared in the litigation. Id., at –. After reviewing that extensive record, the Court concluded in a -page opinion that the question whether HB likely violated § was not “a close one.” It did. Id., at . The Court thus preliminarily enjoined Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Alabama from using HB in forthcoming elections. Id., at . Four days later, on January , Alabama moved in this Court for a stay of the District Court's injunction. This Court granted a stay and scheduled the cases for argument, noting probable jurisdiction in Milligan and granting certio- rari before judgment in Caster. U. S. ––– (). II The District Court found that plaintiffs demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of success on their claim that HB vio- lates § . We affrm that determination. A For the past forty years, we have evaluated claims brought under § using the three-part framework developed in our decision Thornburg v. Gingles, U. S. (). Gingles concerned a challenge to North Carolina's multimember dis- tricting scheme, which allegedly diluted the vote of its black citizens. Id., at –. The case presented the frst oppor- tunity since the amendments to address how the new § would operate. Gingles began by describing what § guards against. “The essence of a § claim,” the Court explained, “is that a certain electoral law, practice, or structure interacts with so- cial and historical conditions to cause an inequality in the opportunities enjoyed by black and white voters.” Id., at . That occurs where an “electoral structure operates to Judge Manasco, presiding in Caster, also preliminarily enjoined Ala- bama from using HB. Her opinion was based on the same evidentiary record as was before the three-judge Court, and it adopted in full that Court's “recitation of the evidence, legal analysis, fndings of fact and con- clusions of law.” App. to Emergency Application for Stay in No. :– cv–, p. ; see also F. Supp. d, at –, and n. . Any reference to the “District Court” in this opinion applies to the Caster Court as well as to the three-judge Court. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court minimize or cancel out” minority voters' “ability to elect their preferred candidates.” Id., at . Such a risk is greatest “where minority and majority voters consistently prefer different candidates” and where minority voters are submerged in a majority voting population that “regularly defeat[s]” their choices. Ibid. To succeed in proving a § violation under Gingles, plain- tiffs must satisfy three “preconditions.” Id., at . First, the “minority group must be suffciently large and [geo- graphically] compact to constitute a majority in a reasonably confgured district.” Wisconsin Legislature v. Wisconsin Elections Comm'n, U. S. , () (per curiam) (citing Gingles, U. S., at –). A district will be rea- sonably confgured, our cases explain, if it comports with tra- ditional districting criteria, such as being contiguous and reasonably compact. See Alabama Legislative Black Cau- cus v. Alabama, U. S. , (). “Second, the mi- nority group must be able to show that it is politically cohe- sive.” Gingles, U. S., at . And third, “the minority must be able to demonstrate that the white majority votes suffciently as a bloc to enable it . . . to defeat the minority's preferred candidate.” Ibid. Finally, a plaintiff who demon- strates the three preconditions must also show, under the “totality of circumstances,” that the political process is not “equally open” to minority voters. Id., at –; see also id., at – (identifying several factors relevant to the total- ity of circumstances inquiry, including “the extent of any his- tory of offcial discrimination in the state . . . that touched the right of the members of the minority group to register, to vote, or otherwise to participate in the democratic process”). Each Gingles precondition serves a different purpose. The frst, focused on geographical compactness and numero- sity, is “needed to establish that the minority has the poten- tial to elect a representative of its own choice in some single- member district.” Growe v. Emison, U. S. , (). The second, concerning the political cohesiveness of the mi- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court nority group, shows that a representative of its choice would in fact be elected. See ibid. The third precondition, fo- cused on racially polarized voting, “establish[es] that the challenged districting thwarts a distinctive minority vote” at least plausibly on account of race. Ibid. And fnally, the totality of circumstances inquiry recognizes that application of the Gingles factors is “peculiarly dependent upon the facts of each case.” U. S., at . Before courts can fnd a violation of § , therefore, they must conduct “an intensely local appraisal” of the electoral mechanism at issue, as well as a “searching practical evaluation of the `past and present reality.' ” Ibid. Gingles has governed our Voting Rights Act jurisprudence since it was decided years ago. Congress has never dis- turbed our understanding of § as Gingles construed it. And we have applied Gingles in one § case after another, to different kinds of electoral systems and to different juris- dictions in States all over the country. See Voinovich v. Quilter, U. S. () (Ohio); Growe, U. S., at (Minnesota); Johnson v. De Grandy, U. S. () (Florida); Holder v. Hall, U. S. () (Georgia); Abrams v. Johnson, U. S. () (Georgia); League of United Latin American Citizens v. Perry, U. S. , () (LULAC) (Texas); Bartlett v. Strickland, U. S. () (plurality opinion) (North Carolina); Cooper v. Harris, U. S. () (North Carolina); Abbott v. Perez, U. S. ––– () (Texas); Wisconsin Legislature, U. S. (Wisconsin). B As noted, the District Court concluded that plaintiffs' § claim was likely to succeed under Gingles. F. Supp. d, at . Based on our review of the record, we agree. With respect to the frst Gingles precondition, the District Court correctly found that black voters could constitute a majority in a second district that was “reasonably confg- ured.” App. to Emergency Application for Stay in Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court No. – etc., p. (MSA). The plaintiffs adduced eleven illustrative maps—that is, example districting maps that Alabama could enact—each of which contained two majority-black districts that comported with traditional dis- tricting criteria. With respect to compactness, for example, the District Court explained that the maps submitted by one of plaintiffs' experts, Dr. Moon Duchin, “perform[ed] gener- ally better on average than” did HB. F. Supp. d, at . A map offered by another of plaintiffs' experts, Bill Cooper, produced districts roughly as compact as the exist- ing plan. Ibid. And none of plaintiffs' maps contained any “tentacles, appendages, bizarre shapes, or any other obvious irregularities that would make it diffcult to fnd” them suff- ciently compact. Id., at . Plaintiffs' maps also satisfed other traditional districting criteria. They contained equal populations, were contiguous, and respected existing politi- cal subdivisions, such as counties, cities, and towns. Id., at , . Indeed, some of plaintiffs' proposed maps split the same number of county lines as (or even fewer county lines than) the State's map. Id., at –. We agree with the District Court, therefore, that plaintiffs' illustrative maps “strongly suggest[ed] that Black voters in Alabama” could constitute a majority in a second, reasonably confg- ured, district. Id., at . The State nevertheless argues that plaintiffs' maps were not reasonably confgured because they failed to keep to- gether a traditional community of interest within Alabama. See, e. g., id., at . A “community of interest,” according to Alabama's districting guidelines, is an “area with recog- nized similarities of interests, including but not limited to ethnic, racial, economic, tribal, social, geographic, or histori- cal identities.” Ibid. Alabama argues that the Gulf Coast region in the southwest of the State is such a community of interest, and that plaintiffs' maps erred by separating it into two different districts. Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court We do not fnd the State's argument persuasive. Only two witnesses testifed that the Gulf Coast was a community of interest. Id., at . The testimony provided by one of those witnesses was “partial, selectively informed, and poorly supported.” Ibid. The other witness, meanwhile, justifed keeping the Gulf Coast together “simply” to pre- serve “political advantage[ ]”: “You start splitting counties,” he testifed, “and that county loses its infuence. That's why I don't want Mobile County to be split.” Id., at , . The District Court understandably found this testimony in- suffcient to sustain Alabama's “overdrawn argument that there can be no legitimate reason to split” the Gulf Coast region. Id., at . Even if the Gulf Coast did constitute a community of inter- est, moreover, the District Court found that plaintiffs' maps would still be reasonably confgured because they joined to- gether a different community of interest called the Black Belt. Id., at –. Named for its fertile soil, the Black Belt contains a high proportion of black voters, who “share a rural geography, concentrated poverty, unequal ac- cess to government services, . . . lack of adequate health- care,” and a lineal connection to “the many enslaved people brought there to work in the antebellum period.” Id., at –; see also App. –. The District Court con- cluded—correctly, under our precedent—that it did not have to conduct a “beauty contest[ ]” between plaintiffs' maps and the State's. There would be a split community of interest in both. F. Supp. d, at (quoting Bush v. Vera, U. S. , – () (plurality opinion)). The State also makes a related argument based on “core retention”—a term that refers to the proportion of districts that remain when a State transitions from one districting plan to another. See, e. g., Brief for Alabama , . Here, by largely mirroring Alabama's districting plan, HB performs well on the core retention metric. Plaintiffs' illus- Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court trative plans, by contrast, naturally fare worse because they change where the district lines were drawn. See, e. g., Supp. App. –. But this Court has never held that a State's adherence to a previously used districting plan can defeat a § claim. If that were the rule, a State could im- munize from challenge a new racially discriminatory redis- tricting plan simply by claiming that it resembled an old ra- cially discriminatory plan. That is not the law: § does not permit a State to provide some voters “less opportunity . . . to participate in the political process” just because the State has done it before. U. S. C. § (b). As to the second and third Gingles preconditions, the Dis- trict Court determined that there was “no serious dispute that Black voters are politically cohesive, nor that the chal- lenged districts' white majority votes suffciently as a bloc to usually defeat Black voters' preferred candidate.” F. Supp. d, at (internal quotation marks omitted). The Court noted that, “on average, Black voters supported their candidates of choice with .% of the vote” while “white voters supported Black-preferred candidates with .% of the vote.” Id., at (internal quotation marks omitted). Plaintiffs' experts described the evidence of ra- cially polarized voting in Alabama as “intens[e],” “very strong,” and “very clear.” Ibid. Even Alabama's expert conceded “that the candidates preferred by white voters in the areas that he looked at regularly defeat the candidates preferred by Black voters.” Id., at . Finally, the District Court concluded that plaintiffs had carried their burden at the totality of circumstances stage. The Court observed that elections in Alabama were racially polarized; that “Black Alabamians enjoy virtually zero suc- cess in statewide elections”; that political campaigns in Ala- bama had been “characterized by overt or subtle racial ap- peals”; and that “Alabama's extensive history of repugnant racial and voting-related discrimination is undeniable and well documented.” Id., at –. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court We see no reason to disturb the District Court's care- ful factual fndings, which are subject to clear error review and have gone unchallenged by Alabama in any event. See Cooper, U. S., at . Nor is there a basis to upset the District Court's legal conclusions. The Court faithfully ap- plied our precedents and correctly determined that, under existing law, HB violated § . III The heart of these cases is not about the law as it exists. It is about Alabama's attempt to remake our § jurispru- dence anew. The centerpiece of the State's effort is what it calls the “race-neutral benchmark.” The theory behind it is this: Using modern computer technology, mapmakers can now generate millions of possible districting maps for a given State. The maps can be designed to comply with traditional districting criteria but to not consider race. The mapmaker can determine how many majority-minority districts exist in each map, and can then calculate the median or average num- ber of majority-minority districts in the entire multimillion- map set. That number is called the race-neutral benchmark. The State contends that this benchmark should serve as the point of comparison in § cases. The benchmark, the State says, was derived from maps that were “race-blind”— maps that cannot have “deni[ed] or abridge[d]” anyone's right to vote “on account of race” because they never took race into “account” in the frst place. U. S. C. § (a). Courts in § cases should therefore compare the number of majority-minority districts in the State's plan to the bench- mark. If those numbers are similar—if the State's map “re- sembles” the benchmark in this way—then, Alabama argues, the State's map also cannot have “deni[ed] or abridge[d]” anyone's right to vote “on account of race.” Ibid. Alabama contends that its approach should be adopted for two reasons. First, the State argues that a race-neutral Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court benchmark best matches the text of the Voting Rights Act. Section requires that the political processes be “equally open.” § (b). What that means, the State asserts, is that the State's map cannot impose “obstacles or burdens that block or seriously hinder voting on account of race.” Brief for Alabama . These obstacles do not exist, in the State's view, where its map resembles a map that never took race into “account.” Ibid. Second, Alabama argues that the Gingles framework ends up requiring racial proportion- ality in districting. According to the State, Gingles de- mands that where “another majority-black district could be drawn, it must be drawn.” Brief for Alabama (emphasis deleted). And that sort of proportionality, Alabama contin- ues, is inconsistent with the compromise that Congress struck, with the text of § , and with the Constitution's prohi- bition on racial discrimination in voting. To apply the race-neutral benchmark in practice, Alabama would require § plaintiffs to make at least three showings. First, the illustrative plan that plaintiffs adduce for the frst Gingles precondition cannot have been “based” on race. Brief for Alabama . Second, plaintiffs must show at the totality of circumstances stage that the State's enacted plan diverges from the average plan that would be drawn without taking race into account. And fnally, plaintiffs must ulti- mately prove that any deviation between the State's plan and a race-neutral plan is explainable “only” by race—not, for example, by “the State's naturally occurring geography and demography.” Id., at . As we explain below, we fnd Alabama's new approach to § compelling neither in theory nor in practice. We accord- ingly decline to recast our § case law as Alabama requests. A Section prohibits States from imposing any “standard, practice, or procedure . . . in a manner which results in a Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court denial or abridgement of the right of any citizen . . . to vote on account of race or color.” U. S. C. § (a). What that means, § goes on to explain, is that the political proc- esses in the State must be “equally open,” such that minority voters do not “have less opportunity than other members of the electorate to participate in the political process and to elect representatives of their choice.” § (b). We have understood the language of § against the back- ground of the hard-fought compromise that Congress struck. To that end, we have reiterated that § turns on the pres- ence of discriminatory effects, not discriminatory intent. See, e. g., Chisom v. Roemer, U. S. , – (). And we have explained that “[i]t is patently clear that Con- gress has used the words `on account of race or color' in the Act to mean `with respect to' race or color, and not to connote any required purpose of racial discrimination.” Gingles, U. S., at , n. (plurality opinion) (some alterations omit- ted). Individuals thus lack an equal opportunity to partici- pate in the political process when a State's electoral struc- ture operates in a manner that “minimize[s] or cancel[s] out the[ir] voting strength.” Id., at . That occurs where an individual is disabled from “enter[ing] into the political proc- ess in a reliable and meaningful manner” “in the light of past and present reality, political and otherwise.” White, U. S., at , . A district is not equally open, in other words, when minority voters face—unlike their majority peers—bloc voting along racial lines, arising against the backdrop of substantial racial discrimination within the State, that renders a minority vote unequal to a vote by a nonminority voter. The State's reading of § , by contrast, runs headlong into our precedent. Alabama asserts that a State's map does not “abridge[ ]” a person's right to vote “on account of race” if the map resembles a suffcient number of race-neutral alter- natives. See Brief for Alabama –. But our cases have consistently focused, for purposes of litigation, on the specifc Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court illustrative maps that a plaintiff adduces. Deviation from that map shows it is possible that the State's map has a dis- parate effect on account of race. The remainder of the Gin- gles test helps determine whether that possibility is reality by looking to polarized voting preferences and the frequency of racially discriminatory actions taken by the State, past and present. A State's liability under § , moreover, must be determined “based on the totality of circumstances.” U. S. C. § (b). Yet Alabama suggests there is only one “circum- stance[ ]” that matters—how the State's map stacks up rela- tive to the benchmark. That single-minded view of § can- not be squared with the VRA's demand that courts employ a more refned approach. And we decline to adopt an inter- pretation of § that would “revise and reformulate the Gin- gles threshold inquiry that has been the baseline of our § jurisprudence” for nearly forty years. Bartlett, U. S., at (plurality opinion); see also Wisconsin Legislature, U. S., at (faulting lower court for “improperly reduc[ing] Gingles' totality-of-circumstances analysis to a single fac- tor”); De Grandy, U. S., at (“An infexible rule would run counter to the textual command of § , that the presence or absence of a violation be assessed `based on the totality of circumstances.' ”). Alabama also argues that the race-neutral benchmark is required because our existing § jurisprudence inevitably demands racial proportionality in districting, contrary to the last sentence of § (b). But properly applied, the Gingles framework itself imposes meaningful constraints on propor- tionality, as our decisions have frequently demonstrated. The principal dissent complains that “what the District Court did here is essentially no different from what many courts have done for decades under this Court's superintendence.” Post, at – (opinion of Thomas, J.). That is not such a bad defnition of stare decisis. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court In Shaw v. Reno, for example, we considered the permissi- bility of a second majority-minority district in North Caro- lina, which at the time had seats in the U. S. House of Representatives and a % black voting age population. U. S. , – (). The second majority-minority district North Carolina drew was “ miles long and, for much of its length, no wider than the [interstate] corri- dor.” Id., at . The district wound “in snakelike fashion through tobacco country, fnancial centers, and manufactur- ing areas until it gobble[d] in enough enclaves of black neigh- borhoods.” Id., at –. Indeed, the district was drawn so imaginatively that one state legislator remarked: “[I]f you drove down the interstate with both car doors open, you'd kill most of the people in the district.” Id., at . Though North Carolina believed the additional district was required by §, we rejected that conclusion, fnding in- stead that those challenging the map stated a claim of imper- missible racial gerrymandering under the Equal Protection Clause. Id., at , . In so holding, we relied on the fact that the proposed district was not reasonably compact. Id., at . North Carolina had “concentrated a dispersed mi- nority population in a single district by disregarding tradi- tional districting principles such as compactness, contiguity, and respect for political subdivisions.” Ibid. (emphasis added). And “[a] reapportionment plan that includes in one district individuals who belong to the same race, but who are otherwise widely separated by geographical and political boundaries,” we said, raised serious constitutional concerns. Ibid. (emphasis added). The same theme emerged in our decision Miller v. Johnson, where we upheld a district court's fnding that one of Georgia's ten congressional districts was the product of an impermissible racial gerrymander. U. S. , , – . At the time, Georgia's black voting age population was %, but there was only one majority-minority district. Id., at . To comply with the VRA, Georgia thought it neces- Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of the Court sary to create two more majority-minority districts—achiev- ing proportionality. Id., at –. But like North Caro- lina in Shaw, Georgia could not create the districts without fouting traditional criteria. One district “centered around four discrete, widely spaced urban centers that ha[d] abso- lutely nothing to do with each other, and stretch[ed] the dis- trict hundreds of miles across rural counties and narrow swamp corridors.” U. S., at . “Geographically,” we said of the map, “it is a monstrosity.” Id., at . In Bush v. Vera, a plurality of the Court again explained how traditional districting criteria limited any tendency of the VRA to compel proportionality. The case concerned Texas's creation of three additional majority-minority dis- tricts. U. S., at . Though the districts brought the State closer to proportional representation, we nevertheless held that they constituted racial gerrymanders in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. That was because the dis- tricts had “no integrity in terms of traditional, neutral redis- tricting criteria.” Id., at . One of the majority-black districts consisted “of narrow and bizarrely shaped tenta- cles.” Id., at . The proposed majority-Hispanic district resembled “a sacred Mayan bird” with “[s]pindly legs reach- [ing] south” and a “plumed head ris[ing] northward.” Id., at . The point of all this is a simple one. Forcing proportional representation is unlawful and inconsistent with this Court's approach to implementing § . The numbers bear the point out well. At the congressional level, the fraction of districts in which black-preferred candidates are likely to win “is cur- rently below the Black share of the eligible voter population in every state but three.” Brief for Professors Jowei Chen et al. as Amici Curiae (Chen Brief). Only one State in the country, meanwhile, “has attained a proportional share” of districts in which Hispanic-preferred candidates are likely to prevail. Id., at –. That is because as residential segregation decreases—as it has “sharply” done since the Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court s—satisfying traditional districting criteria such as the compactness requirement “becomes more difficult.” T. Crum, Reconstructing Racially Polarized Voting, Duke L. J. , , and n. (). Indeed, as amici supporting the appellees emphasize, § litigation in recent years has rarely been successful for just that reason. See Chen Brief –. Since , plaintiffs na- tionwide have apparently succeeded in fewer than ten § suits. Id., at . And “the only state legislative or congres- sional districts that were redrawn because of successful Sec- tion challenges were a handful of state house districts near Milwaukee and Houston.” Id., at –. By contrast, “[n]u- merous lower courts” have upheld districting maps “where, due to minority populations' geographic diffusion, plaintiffs couldn't design an additional majority-minority district” or satisfy the compactness requirement. Id., at – (collect- ing cases). The same has been true of recent litigation in this Court. See Abbott, U. S., at ––– – ––– (fnding a Texas district did not violate § because “the geography and demographics of south and west Texas do not permit the creation of any more than the seven Latino . . . districts that exist under the current plan”). Reapportionment, we have repeatedly observed, “is pri- marily the duty and responsibility of the State[s],” not the federal courts. Id., at –––. Properly applied, the Gingles factors help ensure that remains the case. As respondents Despite this all, the dissent argues that courts have apparently been “methodically carving the country into racially designated electoral dis- tricts” for decades. Post, at (opinion of Thomas, J.). And that, the dissent inveighs, “should inspire us to repentance.” Ibid. But propor- tional representation of minority voters is absent from nearly every corner of this country despite § being in effect for over years. And in case after case, we have rejected districting plans that would bring States closer to proportionality when those plans violate traditional districting criteria. See supra, at –. It seems it is the dissent that is “quixoti- cally joust[ing] with an imaginary adversary.” Post, at (opinion of Thomas, J.). ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of Roberts, C. J. themselves emphasize, § “never require[s] adoption of districts that violate traditional redistricting principles.” Brief for Respondents in No. –, p. . Its exacting re- quirements, instead, limit judicial intervention to “those in- stances of intensive racial politics” where the “excessive role [of race] in the electoral process . . . den[ies] minority voters equal opportunity to participate.” Senate Report –. B Although we are content to reject Alabama's invitation to change existing law on the ground that the State misunder- stands § and our decisions implementing it, we also address how the race-neutral benchmark would operate in practice. Alabama's approach fares poorly on that score, which further counsels against our adopting it. The frst change to existing law that Alabama would re- quire is prohibiting the illustrative maps that plaintiffs sub- mit to satisfy the frst Gingles precondition from being “based” on race. Brief for Alabama . Although Alabama is not entirely clear whether, under its view, plaintiffs' illus- trative plans must not take race into account at all or whether they must just not “prioritize” race, ibid., we see no reason to impose such a new rule. When it comes to considering race in the context of dis- tricting, we have made clear that there is a difference “be- tween being aware of racial considerations and being moti- vated by them.” Miller, U. S., at ; see also North Carolina v. Covington, U. S. –––, ––– () (per cu- riam). The former is permissible; the latter is usually not. That is because “[r]edistricting legislatures will . . . almost always be aware of racial demographics,” Miller, U. S., at , but such “race consciousness does not lead inevitably to impermissible race discrimination,” Shaw, U. S., at . Section itself “demands consideration of race.” Ab- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. bott, U. S., at –––. The question whether additional majority-minority districts can be drawn, after all, involves a “quintessentially race-conscious calculus.” De Grandy, U. S., at . At the same time, however, race may not be “the predomi- nant factor in drawing district lines unless [there is] a com- pelling reason.” Cooper, U. S., at . Race predomi- nates in the drawing of district lines, our cases explain, when “race-neutral considerations [come] into play only after the race-based decision had been made.” Bethune-Hill v. Vir- ginia State Bd. of Elections, U. S. , () (inter- nal quotation marks omitted). That may occur where “race for its own sake is the overriding reason for choosing one map over others.” Id., at . While the line between racial predominance and racial con- sciousness can be diffcult to discern, see Miller, U. S., at , it was not breached here. The Caster plaintiffs relied on illustrative maps produced by expert Bill Cooper. See App. –. Cooper testifed that while it was necessary for him to consider race, he also took several other factors into account, such as compactness, contiguity, and population equality. Ibid. Cooper testifed that he gave all these factors “equal weighting.” Id., at . And when asked squarely whether race predominated in his development of the illustrative plans, Cooper responded: “No. It was a con- sideration. This is a Section lawsuit, after all. But it did not predominate or dominate.” Id., at . The District Court agreed. It found “Cooper's testimony highly credible” and commended Cooper for “work[ing] hard to give `equal weight[ ]' to all traditional redistricting crite- ria.” F. Supp. d, at –; see also id., at –. The court also explained that Alabama's evidence of racial predominance in Cooper's maps was exceedingly thin. Ala- bama's expert, Thomas Bryan, “testifed that he never re- viewed the exhibits to Mr. Cooper's report” and “that he never reviewed” one of the illustrative plans that Cooper Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication ALLEN v. MILLIGAN Opinion of Roberts, C. J. submitted. Id., at . Bryan further testifed that he could offer no “conclusions or opinions as to the apparent basis of any individual line drawing decisions in Cooper's il- lustrative plans.” App. . By his own admission, Bry- an's analysis of any race predominance in Cooper's maps “was pretty light.” Id., at . The District Court did not err in fnding that race did not predominate in Cooper's maps in light of the evidence before it. The dissent contends that race nevertheless predominated in both Cooper's and Duchin's maps because they were designed to hit “ `express racial target[s]' ”—namely, two “%-plus majority-black districts.” Post, at (opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting Bethune-Hill, U. S., at ). This argument fails in multiple ways. First, the dissent's reli- ance on Bethune-Hill is mistaken. In that case, this Court was unwilling to conclude that a State's maps were produced in a racially predominant manner. Instead, we remanded for the lower court to conduct the predominance analysis it- self, explaining that “the use of an express racial target” was just one factor among others that the court would have to consider as part of “[a] holistic analysis.” Id., at . Jus- The dissent claims that Cooper “treated `the minority population in and of itself' as the paramount community of interest in his plans.” Post, at (opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting App. ). But Cooper testifed that he was “aware that the minority population in and of itself can be a community of interest.” Id., at (emphasis added). Cooper then ex- plained that the relevant community of interest here—the Black Belt— was a “historical feature” of the State, not a demographic one. Ibid. (emphasis added). The Black Belt, he emphasized, was defned by its “historical boundaries”—namely, the group of “rural counties plus Mont- gomery County in the central part of the state.” Ibid. The District Court treated the Black Belt as a community of interest for the same reason. The dissent also protests that Cooper's “plans prioritized race over neu- tral districting criteria.” Post, at (opinion of Thomas, J.). But as the District Court found, and as Alabama does not contest, Cooper's maps satisfed other traditional criteria, such as compactness, contiguity, equal populations, and respect for political subdivisions. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tice Thomas dissented in relevant part, contending that be- cause “the legislature sought to achieve a [black voting-age population] of at least %,” race necessarily predominated in its decisionmaking. Id., at (opinion