Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court. This case is about dog toys and whiskey, two items seldom appearing in the same sentence. Respondent VIP Products makes a squeaky, chewable dog toy designed to look like a bottle of Jack Daniel's whiskey. Though not entirely. On the toy, for example, the words “Jack Daniel's” become “Bad Spaniels.” And the descriptive phrase “Old No. Brand Tennessee Sour Mash Whiskey” turns into “The Old No. On Your Tennessee Carpet.” The jokes did not impress petitioner Jack Daniel's Properties. It owns trademarks in the distinctive Jack Daniel's bottle and in many of the words and graphics on the label. And it believed Bad Spaniels had both infringed and diluted those trademarks. Bad Spaniels had infringed the marks, the argument ran, by leading con- sumers to think that Jack Daniel's had created, or was other- wise responsible for, the dog toy. And Bad Spaniels had di- luted the marks, the argument went on, by associating the famed whiskey with, well, dog excrement. The Court of Appeals, in the decision we review, saw things differently. Though the federal trademark statute makes infringement turn on the likelihood of consumer con- fusion, the Court of Appeals never got to that issue. On the court's view, the First Amendment compels a stringent threshold test when an infringement suit challenges a so- called expressive work—here (so said the court), the Bad and Adam G. Unikowsky; for Dan McCall et al. by Paul Alan Levy and Scott L. Nelson; and for Trademark Law Professors by Phillip R. Malone. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Authors Alliance et al. by Christopher T. Bavitz; for the Electronic Frontier Foundation by Corynne McSherry and David Greene; for the Intellectual Property Owners Asso- ciation by Eric R. Moran and Paul H. Berghoff; for Intellectual Property Professors et al. by Megan K. Bannigan, David H. Bernstein, and Jared I. Kagan; for Levi Strauss & Co. et al. by Gregory S. Gilchrist; for the New York Intellectual Property Law Association by Robert J. Rando, Wil- liam Thomashower, and Irena Royzman; for Scholars et al. by Adam W. Hofmann; and for Andrew C. Michaels by Mr. Michaels, pro se. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Spaniels toy. And that test knocked out Jack Daniel's claim, whatever the likelihood of confusion. Likewise, Jack's dilu- tion claim failed—though on that issue the problem was stat- utory. The trademark law provides that the “noncommer- cial” use of a mark cannot count as dilution. U. S. C. § (c)()(C). The Bad Spaniels marks, the court held, fell within that exemption because the toy communicated a mes- sage—a kind of parody—about Jack Daniel's. Today, we reject both conclusions. The infringement issue is the more substantial. In addressing it, we do not decide whether the threshold inquiry applied in the Court of Appeals is ever warranted. We hold only that it is not appropriate when the accused infringer has used a trade- mark to designate the source of its own goods—in other words, has used a trademark as a trademark. That kind of use falls within the heartland of trademark law, and does not receive special First Amendment protection. The dilution issue is more simply addressed. The use of a mark does not count as noncommercial just because it parodies, or other- wise comments on, another's products. I A Start at square , with what a trademark is and does. The Lanham Act, the core federal trademark statute, defnes a trademark as follows: “[A]ny word, name, symbol, or de- vice, or any combination thereof” that a person uses “to iden- tify and distinguish his or her goods . . . from those manufac- tured or sold by others and to indicate the source of the goods.” § . The frst part of that defnition, identifying the kind of things covered, is broad: It encompasses words (think “Google”), graphic designs (Nike's swoosh), and so- called trade dress, the overall appearance of a product and its packaging (a Hershey's Kiss, in its silver wrapper). See Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Samara Brothers, Inc., U. S. , – (). The second part of the defnition de- Page Proof Pending Publication JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court scribes every trademark's “primary” function: “to identify the origin or ownership of the article to which it is affxed.” Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Metcalf, U. S. , (). Trademarks can of course do other things: catch a consumer's eye, appeal to his fancies, and convey every man- ner of message. But whatever else it may do, a trademark is not a trademark unless it identifes a product's source (this is a Nike) and distinguishes that source from others (not any other sneaker brand). See generally J. McCarthy, Trade- marks and Unfair Competition § : (th ed. ). In other words, a mark tells the public who is responsible for a product. In serving that function, trademarks beneft consumers and producers alike. A source-identifying mark enables customers to select “the goods and services that they wish to purchase, as well as those they want to avoid.” Matal v. Tam, U. S. , (). The mark “quickly and easily assures a potential customer that this item—the item with this mark—is made by the same producer as other similarly marked items that he or she liked (or disliked) in the past.” Qualitex Co. v. Jacobson Products Co., U. S. , (). And because that is so, the producer of a quality product may derive signifcant value from its marks. They ensure that the producer itself—and not some “imitating competitor”—will reap the fnancial rewards associated with the product's good reputation. Ibid. To help protect marks, the Lanham Act sets up a voluntary registration system. Any mark owner may apply to the Patent and Trademark Offce to get its mark placed on a federal register. Consistent with trademark law's basic pur- pose, the lead criterion for registration is that the mark “in fact serve as a `trademark' to identify and distinguish goods.” McCarthy § : (listing the principal register's eligibility standards). If it does, and the statute's other cri- teria also are met, the registering trademark owner receives certain benefts, useful in infringement litigation. See, e. g., Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Iancu v. Brunetti, U. S. –––, ––– () (noting that “reg- istration constitutes `prima facie evidence' of the mark's va- lidity”). But the owner of even an unregistered trademark can “use [the mark] in commerce and enforce it against in- fringers.” Ibid. The Lanham Act also creates a federal cause of action for trademark infringement. In the typical case, the owner of a mark sues someone using a mark that closely resembles its own. The court must decide whether the defendant's use is “likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive.” §§ ()(A), (a)()(A). The “keystone” in that statu- tory standard is “likelihood of confusion.” See McCarthy § :. And the single type of confusion most commonly in trademark law's sights is confusion “about the source of a product or service.” Moseley v. V Secret Catalogue, Inc., U. S. , (); see McCarthy § :. Confusion as to source is the bête noire of trademark law—the thing that stands directly opposed to the law's twin goals of facili- tating consumers' choice and protecting producers' good will. Finally, the Lanham Act creates a cause of action for the dilution of famous marks, which can succeed without likeli- hood of confusion. See § (c); Moseley, U. S., at . A famous mark is one “widely recognized” by the public as “designati[ng the] source” of the mark owner's goods. § (c)()(A). Dilution of such a mark can occur “by tar- nishment” (as well as by “blurring,” not relevant here). § (c)(). As the statute describes the idea, an “associa- tion arising from the similarity between” two marks—one of them famous—may “harm[ ] the reputation of the famous mark,” and thus make the other mark's owner liable. § (c)()(C). But there are “[e]xclusions”—categories of activity not “actionable as dilution.” § (c)(). One ex- clusion protects any “noncommercial use of a mark.” § (c)()(C). Another protects a “fair use” of a mark “in connection with . . . parodying, criticizing, or commenting upon the famous mark owner or [its] goods.” § (c) JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court ()(A)(ii). The fair-use exclusion, though, comes with a ca- veat. A defendant cannot get its beneft—even if engaging in parody, criticism, or commentary—when using the similar- looking mark “as a designation of source for the [defendant's] own goods.” § (c)()(A). In other words, the exclusion does not apply if the defendant uses the similar mark as a mark. B A bottle of Jack Daniel's—no, Jack Daniel's Old No. Ten- nessee Sour Mash Whiskey—boasts a fair number of trade- marks. Recall what the bottle looks like (or better yet, re- trieve a bottle from wherever you keep liquor; it's probably there): Page Proof Pending Publication “Jack Daniel's” is a registered trademark, as is “Old No. .” So too the arched Jack Daniel's logo. And the stylized label with fligree (i. e., twirling white lines). Finally, what might be thought of as the platform for all those marks—the whis- key's distinctive square bottle—is itself registered. VIP is a dog toy company, making and selling a product line of chewable rubber toys that it calls “Silly Squeakers.” (Yes, they squeak when bitten.) Most of the toys in the line Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court are designed to look like—and to parody—popular beverage brands. There are, to take a sampling, Dos Perros (cf. Dos Equis), Smella Arpaw (cf. Stella Artois), and Doggie Walker (cf. Johnnie Walker). VIP has registered trademarks in all those names, as in the umbrella term “Silly Squeakers.” In , VIP added the Bad Spaniels toy to the line. VIP did not apply to register the name, or any other feature of, Bad Spaniels. But according to its complaint (further ad- dressed below), VIP both “own[s]” and “use[s]” the “ `Bad Spaniels' trademark and trade dress.” App. , ; see infra, at , . And Bad Spaniels' trade dress, like the dress of many Silly Squeakers toys, is designed to evoke a distinctive beverage bottle-with-label. Even if you didn't already know, you'd probably not have much trouble identifying which one. Page Proof Pending Publication Bad Spaniels is about the same size and shape as an ordinary bottle of Jack Daniel's. The faux bottle, like the original, has a black label with stylized white text and a white fli- greed border. The words “Bad Spaniels” replace “Jack Dan- iel's” in a like font and arch. Above the arch is an image of a spaniel. (This is a dog toy, after all.) Below the arch, “The Old No. On Your Tennessee Carpet” replaces “Old JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court No. Tennessee Sour Mash Whiskey” in similar graphic form. The small print at the bottom substitutes “% poo by vol.” and “% smelly” for “% alc. by vol. ( proof).” The toy is packaged for sale with a cardboard hangtag (so it can be hung on store shelves). Here is the back of the hangtag: Page Proof Pending Publication At the bottom is a disclaimer: “This product is not affliated with Jack Daniel Distillery.” In the middle are some warn- ings and guarantees. And at the top, most relevant here, are two product logos—on the left for the Silly Squeakers line, and on the right for the Bad Spaniels toy. Soon after Bad Spaniels hit the market, Jack Daniel's sent VIP a letter demanding that it stop selling the product. VIP responded by bringing this suit, seeking a declaratory judgment that Bad Spaniels neither infringed nor diluted Jack Daniel's trademarks. The complaint alleged, among other things, that VIP is “the owner of all rights in its `Bad Spaniels' trademark and trade dress for its durable rubber squeaky novelty dog toy.” App. ; see supra, at . Jack Daniel's counterclaimed under the Lanham Act for Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court both trademark infringement and trademark dilution by tarnishment. VIP moved for summary judgment on both claims. First, VIP argued that Jack Daniel's infringement claim failed under a threshold test derived from the First Amendment to protect “expressive works”—like (VIP said) the Bad Spaniels toy. When those works are involved, VIP con- tended, the so-called Rogers test requires dismissal of an in- fringement claim at the outset unless the complainant can show one of two things: that the challenged use of a mark “has no artistic relevance to the underlying work” or that it “explicitly misleads as to the source or the content of the work.” Rogers v. Grimaldi, F. d , (CA ) (Newman, J.). Because Jack Daniel's could make neither showing, VIP argued, the likelihood-of-confusion issue be- came irrelevant. Second, VIP urged that Jack Daniel's could not succeed on a dilution claim because Bad Spaniels was a “parody[ ]” of Jack Daniel's, and therefore made “fair use” of its famous marks. § (c)()(A)(ii). The District Court rejected both contentions for a common reason: because VIP had used the cribbed Jack Daniel's fea- tures as trademarks—that is, to identify the source of its own products. In the court's view, when “another's trademark is used for source identifcation”—as the court thought was true here—the threshold Rogers test does not apply. App. to Pet. for Cert. a. Instead, the suit must address the “standard” infringement question: whether the use is “likely to cause consumer confusion.” Ibid. And likewise, VIP could not invoke the dilution provision's fair-use exclusion. Parodies fall within that exclusion, the court explained, only when the uses they make of famous marks do not serve as “a designation of source for the [alleged diluter's] own goods.” Id., at a (quoting § (c)()(A)). The case thus proceeded to a bench trial, where Jack Dan- iel's prevailed. The District Court found, based largely on survey evidence, that consumers were likely to be confused Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court about the source of the Bad Spaniels toy. See F. Supp. d , – (D Ariz. ). And the court thought that the toy, by creating “negative associations” with “canine ex- crement,” would cause Jack Daniel's “reputational harm.” Id., at , . But the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed, ruling that the District Court had gotten the pretrial legal issues wrong. In the Ninth Circuit's view, the infringement claim was subject to the threshold Rogers test because Bad Spaniels is an “expressive work”: Although just a dog toy, and “surely not the equivalent of the Mona Lisa,” it “com- municates a humorous message.” F. d , () (internal quotation marks omitted). The Court of Appeals therefore returned the case to the District Court to decide whether Jack Daniel's could satisfy either of Rogers' two prongs. And the Ninth Circuit awarded judgment on the dilution claim to VIP. The court did not address the statu- tory exclusion for parody and other fair use, as the District Court had. Instead, the Court of Appeals held that the ex- clusion for “noncommercial use” shielded VIP from liability. § (c)()(C). The “use of a mark may be `noncommer- cial,' ” the court reasoned, “even if used to sell a product.” F. d, at (internal quotation marks omitted). And here it was so, the court found, because it “parodies” and “comments humorously” on Jack Daniel's. Id., at ; see id., at . On remand, the District Court found that Jack Daniel's could not satisfy either prong of Rogers, and so granted sum- mary judgment to VIP on infringement. Jack Daniel's ap- pealed, and the Ninth Circuit summarily affrmed. We then granted certiorari to consider the Court of Appeals' rulings on both infringement and dilution. U. S. ––– (). II Our frst and more substantial question concerns Jack Daniel's infringement claim: Should the company have had Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court to satisfy the Rogers threshold test before the case could proceed to the Lanham Act's likelihood-of-confusion inquiry? The parties address that issue in the broadest possible way, either attacking or defending Rogers in all its possible applications. Today, we choose a narrower path. Without deciding whether Rogers has merit in other con- texts, we hold that it does not when an alleged infringer uses a trademark in the way the Lanham Act most cares about: as a designation of source for the infringer's own goods. See § ; supra, at –. VIP used the marks derived from Jack Daniel's in that way, so the infringement claim here rises or falls on likelihood of confusion. But that in- quiry is not blind to the expressive aspect of the Bad Span- iels toy that the Ninth Circuit highlighted. Beyond source designation, VIP uses the marks at issue in an effort to “par- ody” or “make fun” of Jack Daniel's. Tr. of Oral Arg. , . And that kind of message matters in assessing confusion be- cause consumers are not so likely to think that the maker of a mocked product is itself doing the mocking. A To see why the Rogers test does not apply here, frst con- sider the case from which it emerged. The defendants there had produced and distributed a flm by Federico Fellini titled “Ginger and Fred” about two fctional Italian cabaret danc- ers (Pippo and Amelia) who imitated Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. When the flm was released in the United States, Ginger Rogers objected under the Lanham Act to the use of her name. The Second Circuit rejected the claim. It reasoned that the titles of “artistic works,” like the works themselves, have an “expressive element” implicating “First Amendment values.” F. d, at . And at the same time, such names posed only a “slight risk” of confusing con- sumers about either “the source or the content of the work.” To be clear, when we refer to “the Rogers threshold test,” we mean any threshold First Amendment flter. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court Id., at –. So, the court concluded, a threshold flter was appropriate. When a title “with at least some artistic relevance” was not “explicitly misleading as to source or con- tent,” the claim could not go forward. Ibid. But the court made clear that it was not announcing a general rule. In the typical case, the court thought, the name of a product was more likely to indicate its source, and to be taken by consumers in just that way. See id., at . Over the decades, the lower courts adopting Rogers have confned it to similar cases, in which a trademark is used not to designate a work's source, but solely to perform some other expressive function. So, for example, when the toy- maker Mattel sued a band over the song “Barbie Girl”—with lyrics including “Life in plastic, it's fantastic” and “I'm a blond bimbo girl, in a fantasy world”—the Ninth Circuit ap- plied Rogers. Mattel, Inc. v. MCA Records, Inc., F. d , (). That was because, the court reasoned, the band's use of the Barbie name was “not [as] a source identi- fer”: The use did not “speak[] to [the song's] origin.” Id., at , ; see id., at (a consumer would no more think that the song was “produced by Mattel” than would, “upon hearing Janis Joplin croon `Oh Lord, won't you buy me a Mercedes Benz?,' . . . suspect that she and the carmaker had entered into a joint venture”). Similarly, the Eleventh Cir- cuit dismissed a suit under Rogers when a sports artist de- picted the Crimson Tide's trademarked football uniforms solely to “memorialize” a notable event in “football history.” University of Ala. Bd. of Trustees v. New Life Art, Inc., F. d , (). And when Louis Vuitton sued because a character in the flm The Hangover: Part II de- scribed his luggage as a “Louis Vuitton” (though pronounc- ing it Lewis), a district court dismissed the complaint under Rogers. See Louis Vuitton Malletier S. A. v. Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., F. Supp. d (SDNY ). All parties agreed that the flm was not using the Louis Vuitton mark as its “own identifying trademark.” Id., at (inter- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court nal quotation marks omitted). When that is so, the court reasoned, “confusion will usually be unlikely,” and the “inter- est in free expression” counsels in favor of avoiding the standard Lanham Act test. Ibid. The same courts, though, routinely conduct likelihood-of- confusion analysis, without mentioning Rogers, when trade- marks are used as trademarks—i. e., to designate source. See, e. g., JL Beverage Co., LLC v. Jim Beam Brands Co., F. d , –, (CA ); PlayNation Play Systems, Inc. v. Velex Corp., F. d , – (CA ). And the Second Circuit—Rogers' home court—has made especially clear that Rogers does not apply in that con- text. For example, that court held that an offshoot political group's use of the trademark “United We Stand America” got no Rogers help because the use was as a source identifer. See United We Stand Am., Inc. v. United We Stand, Am. New York, Inc., F. d , (). True, that slogan had expressive content. But the defendant group, the court reasoned, was using it “as a mark,” to suggest the “same source identifcation” as the original “political movement.” Ibid. And similarly, the Second Circuit (indeed, the judge who authored Rogers) rejected a motorcycle mechanic's view that his modifed version of Harley Davidson's bar-and-shield logo was an expressive parody entitled to Rogers' protection. See Harley-Davidson, Inc. v. Grottanelli, F. d , – (). The court acknowledged that the mechanic's adapted logo conveyed a “somewhat humorous[ ]” message. Id., at . But his use of the logo was a quintessential “trademark use”: to brand his “repair and parts business”— through signage, a newsletter, and T-shirts—with images “similar” to Harley-Davidson's. Id., at , –. The point is that whatever you make of Rogers—and again, we take no position on that issue—it has always been a cabined doctrine. If we put this case to the side, the Rog- ers test has applied only to cases involving “non-trademark uses”—or otherwise said, cases in which “the defendant has JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court used the mark” at issue in a “non-source-identifying way.” S. Dogan & M. Lemley, Grounding Trademark Law Through Trademark Use, Iowa L. Rev. , (); see id., at –, and n. . The test has not insulated from ordinary trademark scrutiny the use of trademarks as trade- marks, “to identify or brand [a defendant's] goods or serv- ices.” Id., at . We offer as one last example of that limitation a case with a striking resemblance to this one. It too involved dog products, though perfumes rather than toys. Yes, the de- fendant sold “a line of pet perfumes whose names parody elegant brands sold for human consumption.” Tommy Hil- fger Licensing, Inc. v. Nature Labs, LLC, F. Supp. d , (SDNY ) (Mukasey, J.). The product at issue was named Timmy Holedigger—which Tommy Hilfger didn't much like. The defendant asked for application of Rogers. The court declined it, relying on Harley-Davidson. See F. Supp. d, at . Rogers, the court explained, kicks in when a suit involves solely “nontrademark uses of [a] mark—that is, where the trademark is not being used to indicate the source or origin” of a product, but only to convey a different kind of message. F. Supp. d, at . When, instead, the use is “at least in part” for “source identifca- tion”—when the defendant may be “trading on the good will of the trademark owner to market its own goods”—Rogers has no proper role. F. Supp. d, at –. And that is so, the court continued, even if the defendant is also “mak- ing an expressive comment,” including a parody of a differ- ent product. Id., at . The defendant is still “mak[ing] trademark use of another's mark,” and must meet an in- fringement claim on the usual battleground of “likelihood of confusion.” Id., at . That conclusion fts trademark law, and refects its primary mission. From its defnition of “trademark” onward, the Lanham Act views marks as source identifers—as things that function to “indicate the source” of goods, and so to “dis- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tinguish” them from ones “manufactured or sold by others.” § ; see supra, at –. The cardinal sin under the law, as described earlier, is to undermine that function. See supra, at . It is to confuse consumers about source—to make (some of) them think that one producer's products are another's. And that kind of confusion is most likely to arise when someone uses another's trademark as a trademark— meaning, again, as a source identifer—rather than for some other expressive function. To adapt one of the cases noted above: Suppose a flmmaker uses a Louis Vuitton suitcase to convey something about a character (he is the kind of person who wants to be seen with the product but doesn't know how to pronounce its name). See supra, at . Now think about a different scenario: A luggage manufacturer uses an ever-so-slightly modifed LV logo to make inroads in the suit- case market. The greater likelihood of confusion inheres in the latter use, because it is the one conveying information (or misinformation) about who is responsible for a product. That kind of use “implicate[s] the core concerns of trademark law” and creates “the paradigmatic infringement case.” G. Dinwoodie & M. Janis, Confusion Over Use: Contextualism in Trademark Law, Iowa L. Rev. , (). So the Rogers test—which offers an escape from the likelihood- of-confusion inquiry and a shortcut to dismissal—has no proper application. Nor does that result change because the use of a mark has other expressive content—i. e., because it conveys some message on top of source. Here is where we most dramati- cally part ways with the Ninth Circuit, which thought that That is not to say (far from it) that every infringement case involving a source-identifying use requires full-scale litigation. Some of those uses will not present any plausible likelihood of confusion—because of dissimi- larity in the marks or various contextual considerations. And if, in a given case, a plaintiff fails to plausibly allege a likelihood of confusion, the district court should dismiss the complaint under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (b)(). See McCarthy § :. (providing examples). Page Proof Pending Publication JACK DANIEL'S PROPERTIES, INC. v. VIP PRODUCTS LLC Opinion of the Court because Bad Spaniels “communicates a humorous message,” it is automatically entitled to Rogers' protection. F. d, at (internal quotation marks omitted). On that view, Rogers might take over much of the world. For trademarks are often expressive, in any number of ways. Consider how one liqueur brand's trade dress (beyond identifying source) tells a story, with a bottle in the shape of a friar's habit con- noting the product's olden monastic roots: Page Proof Pending Publication Or take a band name that “not only identifes the band but expresses a view about social issues.” Tam, U. S., at (opinion of Alito, J.) (discussing “The Slants”). Or note how a mark can both function as a mark and have parodic content—as the court found in the Hilfger/Holedigger litiga- tion. See supra, at . The examples could go on and on. As a leading treatise puts the point, the Ninth Circuit's expansion of Rogers “potentially encompasses just about ev- erything” because names, phrases, symbols, designs, and their varied combinations often “contain some `expressive' message” unrelated to source. McCarthy § :.. That message may well be relevant in assessing the likeli- hood of confusion between two marks, as we address below. See infra, at . But few cases would even get to the likelihood-of-confusion inquiry if all expressive content trig- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court gered the Rogers flter. In that event, the Rogers exception would become the general rule, in confict with courts' long- standing view of trademark law. The Ninth Circuit was mistaken to believe that the First Amendment demanded such a result. The court thought that trademark law would otherwise “fail[ ] to account for the full weight of the public's interest in free expression.” F. d, at . But as the Mattel (i. e., Barbie) court noted, when a challenged trademark use functions as “source-identifying,” trademark rights “play well with the First Amendment”: “Whatever frst amendment rights you may have in calling the brew you make in your bathtub `Pepsi' ” are “outweighed by the buyer's interest in not being fooled into buying it.” F. d, at . Or in less colorful terms: “[T]o the extent a trademark is confusing” as to a product's source “the law can protect consumers and trade- mark owners.” Tam, U. S., at (Kennedy, J., concur- ring in part and