Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the Court. In , after President Biden took offce, the Department of Homeland Security issued new Guidelines for immigration enforcement. The Guidelines prioritize the arrest and re- moval from the United States of noncitizens who are sus- pected terrorists or dangerous criminals, or who have unlaw- fully entered the country only recently, for example. Texas and Louisiana sued the Department of Homeland Security. According to those States, the Department's new Guidelines violate federal statutes that purportedly require the Depart- Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Susanne R. Young of Vermont, and Robert W. Ferguson of Washington; for Administrative Law Professors by Adam S. Gershenson and Kathleen R. Hartnett; for the American Civil Liberties Union et al. by Cody Wofsy, Cecillia D. Wang, Michael K. T. Tan, Omar C. Jadwat, and David D. Cole; for Former Offcials of the De- partment of Homeland Security et al. by Elizabeth B. Wydra and Brianne J. Gorod; for Immigrant and Civil Rights Organizations et al. by Sirine Shebaya and Alina Das; for the National Immigration Justice Center by Charles Roth; for Public Citizen by Allison M. Zieve and Scott L. Nelson; for Stephen I. Vladeck by Lindsay C. Harrison and Max Wolson; and for Cities et al. by Daniel R. Suvor, Sylvia O. Hinds-Radix, Daniel R. Satterberg, Michael Feuer, Leslie J. Girard, and John Daniel Reaves. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Arizona et al. by Mark Brnovich, Attorney General of Arizona, Drew C. Ensign, Deputy Solicitor General, and Joseph A. Kanefeld, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Steve Marshall of Alabama, Leslie Rutledge of Arkansas, Christopher M. Carr of Georgia, Theodore E. Rokita of Indiana, Derek Schmidt of Kansas, Daniel Cam- eron of Kentucky, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi, Eric S. Schmitt of Missouri, Austin Knudson of Montana, Douglas J. Peterson of Nebraska, Dave Yost of Ohio, John M. O'Connor of Oklahoma, Alan Wilson of South Carolina, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Jason Miyares of Virginia, Patrick Morrissey of West Virginia, and Bridget Hill of Wyoming; for the State of Florida by Ashley Moody, Attorney General of Florida, Henry C. Whitaker, Solicitor General, Jeffrey Paul DeSousa, Chief Deputy Solicitor General, Darrick W. Monson, Assistant Solicitor General, and James H. Percival, Deputy Attorney General; for Citizens United et al. by William J. Olson, Jere- miah L. Morgan, Robert J. Olson, Michael Boos, and Daniel H. Jorjani; and for Texas Sheriffs and Counties et al. by Christopher J. Hajec and Kris W. Kobach. UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Opinion of the Court ment to arrest more criminal noncitizens pending their removal. The States essentially want the Federal Judiciary to order the Executive Branch to alter its arrest policy so as to make more arrests. But this Court has long held “that a citizen lacks standing to contest the policies of the prosecuting au- thority when he himself is neither prosecuted nor threatened with prosecution.” Linda R. S. v. Richard D., U. S. , (). Consistent with that fundamental Article III principle, we conclude that the States lack Article III stand- ing to bring this suit. I In , Secretary of Homeland Security Mayorkas pro- mulgated new “Guidelines for the Enforcement of Civil Im- migration Law.” The Guidelines prioritize the arrest and removal from the United States of noncitizens who are sus- pected terrorists or dangerous criminals, or who have unlaw- fully entered the country only recently, for example. Texas and Louisiana sued the Department of Homeland Security, as well as other federal offcials and agencies. Ac- cording to those States, the Guidelines contravene two fed- eral statutes that purportedly require the Department to arrest more criminal noncitizens pending their removal. First, the States contend that for certain noncitizens, such as those who are removable due to a state criminal conviction, § (c) of Title says that the Department “shall” arrest those noncitizens and take them into custody when they are released from state prison. Second, § (a)(), as the States see it, provides that the Department “shall” arrest and detain certain noncitizens for days after entry of a fnal order of removal. In the States' view, the Department's failure to comply with those statutory mandates imposes costs on the States. The States assert, for example, that they must continue to incarcerate or supply social services such as healthcare and education to noncitizens who should be (but are not being) arrested by the Federal Government. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court The U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas found that the States would incur costs as a result of the Department's Guidelines. Based on those costs, the District Court determined that the States have standing. On the merits, the District Court ruled that the Guidelines are un- lawful, and vacated the Guidelines. F. Supp. d , (SD Tex. ); see U. S. C. § (). The U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit declined to stay the Dis- trict Court's judgment. F. th (). This Court granted certiorari before judgment. U. S. ––– (). II Article III of the Constitution confnes the federal judicial power to “Cases” and “Controversies.” Under Article III, a case or controversy can exist only if a plaintiff has standing to sue—a bedrock constitutional requirement that this Court has applied to all manner of important disputes. See, e. g., TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, U. S. –––, ––– (); Cali- fornia v. Texas, U. S. –––, ––– (); Carney v. Adams, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); Hollingsworth v. Perry, U. S. , (); Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, U. S. , (); Raines v. Byrd, U. S. , (); Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , – (); Allen v. Wright, U. S. , (); Schlesinger v. Re- servists Comm. to Stop the War, U. S. , (); United States v. Richardson, U. S. , (). As this Court's precedents amply demonstrate, Article III standing is “not merely a troublesome hurdle to be overcome if possible so as to reach the `merits' of a lawsuit which a party desires to have adjudicated; it is a part of the basic charter promulgated by the Framers of the Constitution at Philadelphia in .” Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., U. S. , (). The principle of Article III stand- ing is “built on a single basic idea—the idea of separation of powers.” Allen, U. S., at . Standing doctrine helps safeguard the Judiciary's proper—and properly limited—role Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Opinion of the Court in our constitutional system. By ensuring that a plaintiff has standing to sue, federal courts “prevent the judicial proc- ess from being used to usurp the powers of the political branches.” Clapper, U. S., at . A According to Texas and Louisiana, the arrest policy spelled out in the Department of Homeland Security's Guide- lines does not comply with the statutory arrest mandates in § (c) and § (a)(). The States want the Federal Judiciary to order the Department to alter its arrest policy so that the Department arrests more noncitizens. The threshold question is whether the States have stand- ing under Article III to maintain this suit. The answer is no. To establish standing, a plaintiff must show an injury in fact caused by the defendant and redressable by a court order. See Lujan, U. S., at –. The District Court found that the States would incur additional costs be- cause the Federal Government is not arresting more nonciti- zens. Monetary costs are of course an injury. But this Court has “also stressed that the alleged injury must be le- gally and judicially cognizable.” Raines, U. S., at . That “requires, among other things,” that the “dispute is tra- ditionally thought to be capable of resolution through the judicial process”—in other words, that the asserted injury is traditionally redressable in federal court. Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted); accord Valley Forge, U. S., at . In adhering to that core principle, the Court has exam- ined “history and tradition,” among other things, as “a mean- ingful guide to the types of cases that Article III empowers The States may want the Department to arrest all of the noncitizens it is now arresting plus other noncitizens—or instead to arrest some of the noncitizens it is now arresting plus other noncitizens. Either way, the States seek a court order that would alter the Department's arrest policy so that the Department arrests more noncitizens. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court federal courts to consider.” Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., U. S. , (); see Trans- Union LLC, U. S., at ––– – –––. The States have not cited any precedent, history, or tradi- tion of courts ordering the Executive Branch to change its arrest or prosecution policies so that the Executive Branch makes more arrests or initiates more prosecutions. On the contrary, this Court has previously ruled that a plaintiff lacks standing to bring such a suit. The leading precedent is Linda R. S. v. Richard D., U. S. (). The plaintiff in that case contested a State's policy of declining to prosecute certain child-support violations. This Court decided that the plaintiff lacked standing to challenge the State's policy, reasoning that in “American jurisprudence at least,” a party “lacks a judicially cognizable interest in the prosecution . . . of another.” Id., at . The Court concluded that “a citizen lacks standing to contest the policies of the prosecuting authority when he himself is neither prosecuted nor threatened with prosecu- tion.” Ibid. The Court's Article III holding in Linda R. S. applies to challenges to the Executive Branch's exercise of enforcement discretion over whether to arrest or prosecute. See id., at , ; Castle Rock v. Gonzales, U. S. , –, , n. (); cf. Sure-Tan, Inc. v. NLRB, U. S. , () (citing Linda R. S. principle in immigration context and stating that the petitioners there had “no judicially cog- nizable interest in procuring enforcement of the immigration laws” by the Executive Branch). And importantly, that Ar- ticle III standing principle remains the law today; the States have pointed to no case or historical practice holding other- wise. A “telling indication of the severe constitutional problem” with the States' assertion of standing to bring this lawsuit “is the lack of historical precedent” supporting it. Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Over- sight Bd., U. S. , () (internal quotation marks Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Opinion of the Court omitted); see also Raines, U. S., at (“Not only do appellees lack support from precedent, but historical practice appears to cut against them as well”). In short, this Court's precedents and longstanding histori- cal practice establish that the States' suit here is not the kind redressable by a federal court. B Several good reasons explain why, as Linda R. S. held, federal courts have not traditionally entertained lawsuits of this kind. To begin with, when the Executive Branch elects not to arrest or prosecute, it does not exercise coercive power over an individual's liberty or property, and thus does not infringe upon interests that courts often are called upon to protect. See Lujan, U. S., at –. And for standing pur- poses, the absence of coercive power over the plaintiff makes a difference: When “a plaintiff's asserted injury arises from the government's allegedly unlawful regulation (or lack of regulation) of someone else, much more is needed” to estab- lish standing. Id., at (emphasis deleted). Moreover, lawsuits alleging that the Executive Branch has made an insuffcient number of arrests or brought an insuff- cient number of prosecutions run up against the Executive's Article II authority to enforce federal law. Article II of the Constitution assigns the “executive Power” to the President and provides that the President “shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” U. S. Const., Art. II, § , cl. ; § . Under Article II, the Executive Branch possesses au- thority to decide “how to prioritize and how aggressively to pursue legal actions against defendants who violate the law.” TransUnion LLC, U. S., at –––; see Lujan, U. S., By contrast, when “the plaintiff is himself an object of the action (or forgone action) at issue,” “there is ordinarily little question that the action or inaction has caused him injury, and that a judgment preventing or re- quiring the action will redress it.” Lujan, U. S., at –. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court at –; Allen, U. S., at –. The Executive Branch—not the Judiciary—makes arrests and prosecutes offenses on behalf of the United States. See United States v. Nixon, U. S. , () (“the Executive Branch has exclusive authority and absolute discretion to decide whether to prosecute a case”); Printz v. United States, U. S. , – () (Brady Act provisions held uncon- stitutional because, among other things, they transferred power to execute federal law to state offcials); United States v. Armstrong, U. S. , () (decisions about en- forcement of “the Nation's criminal laws” lie within the “spe- cial province of the Executive” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Buckley v. Valeo, U. S. , () (“A law- suit is the ultimate remedy for a breach of the law, and it is to the President, and not to the Congress, that the Constitution entrusts the responsibility to `take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed' ” (quoting U. S. Const., Art. II, § )); see also United States v. Cox, F. d , (CA ). That principle of enforcement discretion over arrests and prosecutions extends to the immigration context, where the Court has stressed that the Executive's enforcement discre- tion implicates not only “normal domestic law enforcement priorities” but also “foreign-policy objectives.” Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm., U. S. , – (). In line with those principles, this Court has declared that the Executive Branch also retains discretion over whether to remove a noncitizen from the United States. Arizona v. United States, U. S. , () (“Federal offcials, as an initial matter, must decide whether it makes sense to pursue removal at all”). In addition to the Article II problems raised by judicial review of the Executive Branch's arrest and prosecution poli- cies, courts generally lack meaningful standards for assess- ing the propriety of enforcement choices in this area. After all, the Executive Branch must prioritize its enforcement ef- forts. See Wayte v. United States, U. S. , – Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Opinion of the Court (). That is because the Executive Branch (i) invariably lacks the resources to arrest and prosecute every violator of every law and (ii) must constantly react and adjust to the ever-shifting public-safety and public-welfare needs of the American people. This case illustrates the point. As the District Court found, the Executive Branch does not possess the resources necessary to arrest or remove all of the noncitizens covered by § (c) and § (a)(). That reality is not an anom- aly—it is a constant. For the last years since § (c) and § (a)() were enacted in their current form, all fve Presidential administrations have determined that resource constraints necessitated prioritization in making immigra- tion arrests. In light of inevitable resource constraints and regularly changing public-safety and public-welfare needs, the Execu- tive Branch must balance many factors when devising arrest and prosecution policies. That complicated balancing proc- ess in turn leaves courts without meaningful standards for assessing those policies. Cf. Heckler v. Chaney, U. S. , – (); Lincoln v. Vigil, U. S. , – (). Therefore, in both Article III cases and Administra- tive Procedure Act cases, this Court has consistently recog- nized that federal courts are generally not the proper forum for resolving claims that the Executive Branch should make more arrests or bring more prosecutions. See Linda R. S., U. S., at ; cf. Heckler, U. S., at (recognizing the “general unsuitability for judicial review of agency deci- sions to refuse enforcement”); ICC v. Locomotive Engineers, U. S. , () (“it is entirely clear that the refusal to prosecute cannot be the subject of judicial review”). Also, the plaintiffs here are States, and federal courts must remain mindful of bedrock Article III constraints in cases brought by States against an executive agency or offcer. To be sure, States sometimes have standing to sue the United States or an executive agency or offcer. See, e. g., New York v. United States, U. S. (). But in our system Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court All of those considerations help explain why federal courts have not traditionally entertained lawsuits of this kind. By concluding that Texas and Louisiana lack standing here, we abide by and reinforce the proper role of the Federal Judi- ciary under Article III. The States' novel standing argu- ment, if accepted, would entail expansive judicial direction of the Department's arrest policies. If the Court green-lighted this suit, we could anticipate complaints in future years about alleged Executive Branch under-enforcement of any similarly worded laws—whether they be drug laws, gun laws, obstruction of justice laws, or the like. We decline to start the Federal Judiciary down that uncharted path. Our constitutional system of separation of powers “contemplates a more restricted role for Article III courts.” Raines, U. S., at . C In holding that Texas and Louisiana lack standing, we do not suggest that federal courts may never entertain cases involving the Executive Branch's alleged failure to make more arrests or bring more prosecutions. First, the Court has adjudicated selective-prosecution claims under the Equal Protection Clause. In those cases, however, a party typically seeks to prevent his or her own prosecution, not to mandate additional prosecutions against other possible defendants. See, e. g., Wayte, U. S., at ; Armstrong, U. S., at , . Second, as the Solicitor General points out, the standing analysis might differ when Congress elevates de facto inju- of dual federal and state sovereignty, federal policies frequently generate indirect effects on state revenues or state spending. And when a State asserts, for example, that a federal law has produced only those kinds of indirect effects, the State's claim for standing can become more attenu- ated. See Massachusetts v. Laird, U. S. (); Florida v. Mellon, U. S. , – (); cf. Lujan, U. S., at –. In short, none of the various theories of standing asserted by the States in this case overcomes the fundamental Article III problem with this lawsuit. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Opinion of the Court ries to the status of legally cognizable injuries redressable by a federal court. See Brief for Petitioners , n. ; cf. TransUnion LLC, U. S., at ––– – –––; Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, U. S. , (); Raines, U. S., at , n. ; Lujan, U. S., at ; Linda R. S., U. S., at , n. . For example, Congress might (i) specifcally authorize suits against the Executive Branch by a defned set of plaintiffs who have suffered concrete harms from exec- utive under-enforcement and (ii) specifcally authorize the Judiciary to enter appropriate orders requiring additional ar- rests or prosecutions by the Executive Branch. Here, however, the relevant statutes do not supply such specifc authorization. The statutes, even under the States' own reading, simply say that the Department “shall” arrest certain noncitizens. Given the “deep-rooted nature of law- enforcement discretion,” a purported statutory arrest man- date, without more, does not entitle any particular plaintiff to enforce that mandate in federal court. Castle Rock, U. S., at , –, , n. ; cf. Heckler, U. S., at . For an arrest mandate to be enforceable in federal court, we would need at least a “stronger indication” from Con- gress that judicial review of enforcement discretion is appro- priate—for example, specifc authorization for particular plaintiffs to sue and for federal courts to order more arrests or prosecutions by the Executive. Castle Rock, U. S., at . We do not take a position on whether such a statute would suffce for Article III purposes; our only point is that no such statute is present in this case. Third, the standing calculus might change if the Executive Branch wholly abandoned its statutory responsibilities to make arrests or bring prosecutions. Under the Administra- tive Procedure Act, a plaintiff arguably could obtain review of agency non-enforcement if an agency “has consciously and expressly adopted a general policy that is so extreme as As the Solicitor General noted, those kinds of statutes, by infringing on the Executive's enforcement discretion, could also raise Article II is- sues. See Tr. of Oral Arg. –. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court to amount to an abdication of its statutory responsibilit- ies.” Heckler, U. S., at , n. (internal quotation marks omitted); see id., at (Brennan, J., concurring); cf. U. S. C. § (). So too, an extreme case of non- enforcement arguably could exceed the bounds of enforce- ment discretion and support Article III standing. But the States have not advanced a Heckler-style “abdication” argu- ment in this case or argued that the Executive has entirely ceased enforcing the relevant statutes. Therefore, we do not analyze the standing ramifcations of such a hypotheti- cal scenario. Fourth, a challenge to an Executive Branch policy that in- volves both the Executive Branch's arrest or prosecution pri- orities and the Executive Branch's provision of legal benefts or legal status could lead to a different standing analysis. That is because the challenged policy might implicate more than simply the Executive's traditional enforcement discre- tion. Cf. Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of Univ. of Cal., U. S. –––, ––– – ––– () (benefts such as work authorization and Medicare eligibility accompanied by non-enforcement meant that the policy was “more than sim- ply a non-enforcement policy”); Texas v. United States, F. d , (CA ) (Linda R. S. “concerned only non- prosecution,” which is distinct from “both nonprosecution and the conferral of benefts”), aff'd by an equally divided Court, U. S. (). Again, we need not resolve the Article III consequences of such a policy. Fifth, policies governing the continued detention of noncit- izens who have already been arrested arguably might raise a different standing question than arrest or prosecution poli- cies. Cf. Biden v. Texas, U. S. ––– (). But this case does not concern a detention policy, so we do not address the issue here. This case concerns only arrest and prosecution policies, and we there- fore address only that issue. As to detention, the Solicitor General has represented that the Department's Guidelines do not affect continued de- tention of noncitizens already in federal custody. See Brief for Petition- Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Opinion of the Court D The discrete standing question raised by this case rarely arises because federal statutes that purport to require the Executive Branch to make arrests or bring prosecutions are rare—not surprisingly, given the Executive's Article II au- thority to enforce federal law and the deeply rooted history of enforcement discretion in American law. Indeed, the States cite no similarly worded federal laws. This case therefore involves both a highly unusual provision of federal law and a highly unusual lawsuit. To be clear, our Article III decision today should in no way be read to suggest or imply that the Executive possesses some freestanding or general constitutional authority to dis- regard statutes requiring or prohibiting executive action. Moreover, the Federal Judiciary of course routinely and appropriately decides justiciable cases involving statutory requirements or prohibitions on the Executive. See, e. g., American Hospital Assn. v. Becerra, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); Weyerhaeuser Co. v. United States Fish and Wildlife Serv., U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); Zivotofsky v. Clinton, U. S. , – (); Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, U. S. , –, –, (); id., at – (Kennedy, J., concurring); Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, U. S. , –, () (Jackson, J., concurring). This case is categorically different, however, because it im- plicates only one discrete aspect of the executive power— namely, the Executive Branch's traditional discretion over whether to take enforcement actions against violators of fed- eral law. And this case raises only the narrow Article III ers ; Tr. of Oral Arg. (Solicitor General: “the Guidelines govern only decisions about apprehension and removal, whether to charge a non-citizen in the frst place. . . . the Guidelines don't have anything to do with contin- ued detention”); Guidelines Memorandum, App. (“This memorandum provides guidance for the apprehension and removal of noncitizens”); id., at (“We will prioritize for apprehension and removal noncitizens who are a threat to our national security, public safety, and border security”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court standing question of whether the Federal Judiciary may in effect order the Executive Branch to take enforcement ac- tions against violators of federal law—here, by making more arrests. Under this Court's Article III precedents and the historical practice, the answer is no. It bears emphasis that the question of whether the federal courts have jurisdiction under Article III is distinct from the question of whether the Executive Branch is complying with the relevant statutes—here, § (c) and § (a)(). In other words, the question of reviewability is different from the question of legality. We take no position on whether the Executive Branch here is complying with its legal obliga- tions under § (c) and § (a)(). We hold only that the federal courts are not the proper forum to resolve this dispute. On that point, even though the federal courts lack Arti- cle III jurisdiction over this suit, other forums remain open for examining the Executive Branch's arrest policies. For example, Congress possesses an array of tools to analyze and infuence those policies—oversight, appropriations, the legis- lative process, and Senate confrmations, to name a few. Cf. Raines, U. S., at ; Lincoln, U. S., at . And through elections, American voters can both infuence Exec- utive Branch policies and hold elected offcials to account for enforcement decisions. In any event, those are political checks for the political process. We do not opine on whether any such actions are appropriate in this instance. As part of their argument for standing, the States also point to Massa- chusetts v. EPA, U. S. (). Putting aside any disagreements that some may have with Massachusetts v. EPA, that decision does not control this case. The issue there involved a challenge to the denial of a statutorily authorized petition for rulemaking, not a challenge to an exer- cise of the Executive's enforcement discretion. Id., at , ; see also id., at (noting that there are “key differences between a denial of a petition for rulemaking and an agency's decision not to initiate an enforce- ment action” and that “an agency's refusal to initiate enforcement proceed- ings is not ordinarily subject to judicial review”). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. TEXAS Gorsuch, J.,