Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the Court. A federal law prohibits “encourag[ing] or induc[ing]” ille- gal immigration. U. S. C. § (a)()(A)(iv). After con- cluding that this statute criminalizes immigration advocacy and other protected speech, the Ninth Circuit held it uncon- stitutionally overbroad under the First Amendment. That was error. Properly interpreted, this provision forbids only the intentional solicitation or facilitation of certain unlawful acts. It does not “prohibi[t] a substantial amount of pro- tected speech”—let alone enough to justify throwing out the law's “plainly legitimate sweep.” United States v. Wil- liams, U. S. , (). We reverse. I In , Mana Nailati, a citizen of Fiji, heard that he could become a U. S. citizen through an “adult adoption” program run by Helaman Hansen. Eager for citizenship, Nailati few Jason Miyares of Virginia, Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia, and Bridget Hill of Wyoming; and for the Immigration Reform Law Institute by Lawrence J. Joseph and Christopher J. Hajec. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the City and County of San Francisco, California, et al. by Tara M. Steeley, Jaime M. Huling Delaye, and Molly Alarcon; for Asian Americans Advancing Jus- tice|AAJC et al. by Niyati Shah and Emily T. Kuwahara; for the Elec- tronic Frontier Foundation et al. by David Greene; for the First Amend- ment Coalition et al. by Penny Venetis; for Immigration Representatives et al. by William C. Perdue, Kolya D. Glick, and Sirine Shebaya; for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. by Stephen R. Sady, Jeffrey T. Green, Xiao Wang, and Meredith R. Aska McBride; for Religious Organizations by Matthew S. Hellman, David A. Strauss, and Sarah M. Konsky; for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press by Bruce D. Brown; and for The Rutherford Institute et al. by Erin Glenn Busby, Lisa R. Eskow, Michael F. Sturley, John W. Whitehead, and Daniel M. Ortner. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Cato Institute by Clark M. Neily III; for Pfzer Inc., by Douglas Hallward-Driemeier, Stefan P. Schropp, and Ilana H. Eisenstein; and for Eugene Volokh by Mr. Volokh, pro se. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court to California to pursue the program. Hansen's wife told Nailati that adult adoption was the “quickest and easiest way to get citizenship here in America.” App. . For $,, Hansen's organization would arrange Nailati's adoption, and he could then inherit U. S. citizenship from his new parent. Nailati signed up. It was too good to be true. There is no path to citizenship through “adult adoption,” so Nailati waited for months with nothing to show for it. Faced with the expiration of his visa, he asked Hansen what to do. Hansen advised him to stay: “[O]nce you're in the program,” Hansen explained, “you're safe. Immigration cannot touch you.” Id., at . Believ- ing that citizenship was around the corner, Nailati took Han- sen's advice and remained in the country unlawfully. Hansen peddled his scam to other noncitizens too. After hearing about the program from their pastor, one husband and wife met with Hansen and wrote him a check for $,—initially saved for a payment on a house in Mexico— so that they could participate. Another noncitizen paid Hansen out of savings he had accumulated over years as a housepainter. Still others borrowed from relatives and friends. All told, Hansen lured over noncitizens into his program, and he raked in nearly $ million as a result. The United States charged Hansen with (among other crimes) violations of § (a)()(A)(iv). That clause forbids “encourag[ing] or induc[ing] an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or residence is or will be in violation of law.” In addition to convicting him under clause (iv), the jury found that Hansen had acted “for the purpose of private fnancial gain,” triggering a higher maxi- mum penalty. App. ; see § (a)()(B)(i). After the verdict came in, Hansen saw a potential way out. Another case involving § (a)()(A)(iv), United States v. Sineneng-Smith, was pending before the Ninth Circuit, which had sua sponte raised the question whether the clause Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court was an unconstitutionally overbroad restriction of speech. F. d , (). Taking his cue from Sineneng- Smith, Hansen moved to dismiss the clause (iv) charges on First Amendment overbreadth grounds. The District Court rejected Hansen's argument and sentenced him. While Hansen's appeal was pending, the Ninth Circuit held in Sineneng-Smith that clause (iv) is unconstitutionally over- broad. Id., at –. That holding was short-lived: We vacated the judgment, explaining that the panel's choice to inject the overbreadth issue into the appeal and appoint amici to argue it “departed so drastically from the principle of party presentation as to constitute an abuse of discretion.” U. S. –––, ––– (). On remand, limited to the argu- ments that Sineneng-Smith had actually made, the Ninth Circuit affrmed her convictions. F. d , (). But Hansen's appeal was waiting in the wings, giving the Ninth Circuit a second chance to address the overbreadth question. It reprised its original holding in Sineneng-Smith. As in Sineneng-Smith, the Ninth Circuit focused on whether clause (iv) is a narrow prohibition covering solicita- tion and facilitation of illegal conduct, or a sweeping ban that would pull in “statements or conduct that are likely repeated countless times across the country every day.” F. th , (). It adopted the latter interpretation, as- serting that clause (iv) criminalizes speech such as “encour- aging an undocumented immigrant to take shelter during a natural disaster, advising an undocumented immigrant about available social services, telling a tourist that she is unlikely to face serious consequences if she overstays her tourist visa, or providing certain legal advice to undocu- mented immigrants.” Ibid. Concluding that clause (iv) covers an “ `alarming' ” amount of protected speech relative to its narrow legitimate sweep, the Ninth Circuit held the provision facially overbroad. Ibid. The Ninth Circuit denied the Government's petition for rehearing en banc over the dissent of nine judges. Judge Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Bumatay, who wrote the principal dissent, attributed the panel's overbreadth concern to a misreading of the statute. See F. th , – (). Correctly interpreted, he explained, clause (iv) reaches only criminal solicitation and aiding and abetting. Ibid. On that reading, the pro- vision raises no overbreadth problem because, “[e]ven if § (a)()(A)(iv) somehow reaches protected speech, that reach is far outweighed by the provision's broad legitimate sweep.” Id., at . We granted certiorari. U. S. ––– (). II The First Amendment provides that “Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech.” Wisely, Han- sen does not claim that the First Amendment protects the communications for which he was prosecuted. Cf. Illinois ex rel. Madigan v. Telemarketing Associates, Inc., U. S. , () (“[T]he First Amendment does not shield fraud”). Instead, he raises an overbreadth challenge: He ar- gues that clause (iv) punishes so much protected speech that it cannot be applied to anyone, including him. Brief for Re- spondent –. An overbreadth challenge is unusual. For one thing, liti- gants typically lack standing to assert the constitutional rights of third parties. See, e. g., Powers v. Ohio, U. S. , (). For another, litigants mounting a facial challenge to a statute normally “must establish that no set of circumstances exists under which the [statute] would be valid.” United States v. Salerno, U. S. , () (emphasis added). Breaking from both of these rules, the overbreadth doctrine instructs a court to hold a statute fa- cially unconstitutional even though it has lawful applications, and even at the behest of someone to whom the statute can be lawfully applied. We have justifed this doctrine on the ground that it pro- vides breathing room for free expression. Overbroad laws Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court “may deter or `chill' constitutionally protected speech,” and if would-be speakers remain silent, society will lose their contributions to the “marketplace of ideas.” Virginia v. Hicks, U. S. , (). To guard against those harms, the overbreadth doctrine allows a litigant (even an undeserving one) to vindicate the rights of the silenced, as well as society's broader interest in hearing them speak. Williams, U. S., at . If the challenger demonstrates that the statute “prohibits a substantial amount of protected speech” relative to its “plainly legitimate sweep,” then soci- ety's interest in free expression outweighs its interest in the statute's lawful applications, and a court will hold the law facially invalid. Ibid.; see Hicks, U. S., at –. Because it destroys some good along with the bad, “[i]nval- idation for overbreadth is ` “strong medicine” ' that is not to be `casually employed.' ” Williams, U. S., at . To justify facial invalidation, a law's unconstitutional applica- tions must be realistic, not fanciful, and their number must be substantially disproportionate to the statute's lawful sweep. New York State Club Assn., Inc. v. City of New York, U. S. , (); Members of City Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent, U. S. , – (). In the absence of a lopsided ratio, courts must han- dle unconstitutional applications as they usually do—case- by-case. III A To judge whether a statute is overbroad, we must frst determine what it covers. Recall that § (a)()(A)(iv) makes it unlawful to “encourag[e] or induc[e] an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States, knowing or in reck- less disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or resi- dence is or will be in violation of law.” The issue is Although the statutory terms are not coextensive, we use “alien” and “noncitizen” as rough equivalents here. See U. S. C. § (a)(); Barton v. Barr, U. S. –––, –––, n. (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court whether Congress used “encourage” and “induce” as terms of art referring to criminal solicitation and facilitation (thus capturing only a narrow band of speech) or instead as those terms are used in everyday conversation (thus encompassing a broader swath). An overbreadth challenge obviously has better odds on the latter view. We start with some background on solicitation and facilita- tion. Criminal solicitation is the intentional encouragement of an unlawful act. ALI, Model Penal Code § .(), p. () (MPC); W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § . (d ed. ) (LaFave). Facilitation—also called aiding and abetting—is the provision of assistance to a wrongdoer with the intent to further an offense's commission. See, e. g., Twitter, Inc. v. Taamneh, U. S. , – (). While the crime of solicitation is complete as soon as the encouragement occurs, see LaFave § ., liability for aiding and abetting requires that a wrongful act be carried out, see id., § .(a). Neither solicitation nor facilitation requires lending physical aid; for both, words may be enough. Reves v. Ernst & Young, U. S. , () (one may aid and abet by providing “ `assistance rendered by words, acts, encouragement, support, or presence' ”); MPC § .(), at (solicitation may take place through words or conduct); LaFave § .(c) (same). Both require an intent to bring about a particular unlawful act. See, e. g., Hicks v. United States, U. S. , () (“[W]ords of encouragement and abetting must” be used with “the intention as respects the effect to be produced”). And both are longstanding criminal theories targeting those who support the crimes of a principal wrongdoer. See Central Bank of Denver, N. A. v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A., U. S. , (); LaFave § .(a). The terms “encourage” and “induce” are among the “most common” verbs used to denote solicitation and facilitation. Id., § .(a); see also J. Ohlin, Wharton's Criminal Law Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court § :, p. (th ed. ) (Wharton) (“[A]dditional lan- guage—such as encourage, counsel, and command—usually accompanies `aid' or `abet' ” (emphasis added)). In fact, their criminal-law usage dates back hundreds of years. See F. th, at – (opinion of Bumatay, J.). A prominent early American legal dictionary, for instance, defnes “abet” as “[t]o encourage or set another on to commit a crime.” J. Bouvier, Law Dictionary () (emphasis added). Other sources agree. See, e. g., Wharton § :, at (“ `abet,' ” at common law, meant “to encourage, advise, or instigate the commission of a crime” (emphasis added)); Black's Law Dic- tionary (st ed. ) (to “abet” “[i]n criminal law” was “[t]o encourage, incite, or set another on to commit a crime” (emphasis added)); cf. id., at (th ed. ) (defning “en- courage” with, in part, a cross-reference to “aid and abet”). This pattern is on display in the federal criminal code, which, for over a century, has punished one who “induces” a crime as a principal. See Act of Mar. , , § , Stat. (“Whoever . . . aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces, or procures [the commission of an offense] is a principal” (em- phasis added)); U. S. C. §(a) (listing the same verbs today). The Government offers other examples as well: The ban on soliciting a crime of violence penalizes those who “solici[t], comman[d], induc[e], or otherwise endeavo[r] to persuade” another person “to engage in [the unlawful] con- duct.” § (a) (emphasis added). Federal law also crimi- nalizes “persuad[ing], induc[ing], entic[ing], or coerc[ing]” one “to engage in prostitution” or other unlawful sexual activity involving interstate commerce. §§ (a), (b) (em- phasis added). The Model Penal Code echoes these formula- tions, defning solicitation as, in relevant part, “command- [ing], encourag[ing] or request[ing] another person to en- gage in specifc [unlawful] conduct.” MPC § .(), at (emphasis added). And the commentary to the Model Penal Code notes that similar prohibitions may employ other verbs, such as “induce.” See id., Comment , at –, n. (col- lecting examples). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court The use of both verbs to describe solicitation and facilita- tion is widespread in the States too. Nevada considers “[e]very person” who “aided, abetted, counseled, encouraged, hired, commanded, induced or procured” an offense to be a principal. Nev. Rev. Stat. § . () (emphasis added). Arizona provides that one who “commands, encourages, re- quests, or solicits another person to engage in specifc con- duct” commits the offense of solicitation. Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § –(A) () (emphasis added). And New Mex- ico imposes criminal liability on one who “with the intent” for another to commit a crime “solicits, commands, requests, induces . . . or otherwise attempts to promote or facilitate” the offense. N. M. Stat. Ann. § ––(A) () (emphasis added). These States are by no means outliers—“induce” or “encourage” describe similar offenses in the criminal codes of every State. App. to Brief for State of Montana et al. as Amici Curiae –; see, e. g., Ala. Code § A––() () (“induces”); Colo. Rev. Stat. § –– () (“encourages”); Fla. Stat. § .() () (“encourages”); Haw. Rev. Stat. § –() () (“encourages”); Ind. Code § ––– () (“induces”); Kan. Stat. Ann. § –(a) () (“en- couraging”); N. D. Cent. Code Ann. §.––() () (“induces”); Tex. Penal Code Ann. § .(a)() (West ) (“encourages”); W. Va. Code Ann. § ––a(b)() (Lexis ) (“inducement”); Wyo. Stat. Ann. § ––(a) () (“encourages”). In sum, the use of “encourage” and “induce” to describe solicitation and facilitation is both longstanding and perva- sive. And if U. S. C. § (a)()(A)(iv) refers to solicita- tion and facilitation as they are typically understood, an overbreadth challenge would be hard to sustain. Hansen, like the Ninth Circuit, insists that clause (iv) uses “encourages” and “induces” in their ordinary rather than their specialized sense. While he offers defnitions from multiple dictionaries, the terms are so familiar that two sam- Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court ples suffce. In ordinary parlance, “induce” means “[t]o lead on; to infuence; to prevail on; to move by persuasion or in- fuence.” Webster's New International Dictionary (d ed. ). And “encourage” means to “inspire with courage, spirit, or hope.” Webster's Third New International Dic- tionary (). In Hansen's view, clause (iv)'s use of the bare words “en- courages” or “induces” conveys these ordinary meanings. See Brief for Respondent . “[T]hat encouragement can include aiding and abetting,” he says, “does not mean it is restricted to aiding and abetting.” Id., at . And because clause (iv) “proscribes encouragement, full stop,” id., at , it prohibits even an “op-ed or public speech criticizing the immigration system and supporting the rights of long-term undocumented noncitizens to remain, at least where the author or speaker knows that, or recklessly disregards whether, any of her readers or listeners are undocumented.” Id., at –. If the statute reaches the many examples that Hansen posits, its applications to protected speech might swamp its lawful applications, rendering it vulnerable to an overbreadth challenge. B We hold that clause (iv) uses “encourages or induces” in its specialized, criminal-law sense—that is, as incorporating common-law liability for solicitation and facilitation. In truth, the clash between defnitions is not much of a contest. “Encourage” and “induce” have well-established legal mean- ings—and when Congress “borrows terms of art in which are accumulated the legal tradition and meaning of centuries of practice, it presumably knows and adopts the cluster of ideas that were attached to each borrowed word.” Moris- sette v. United States, U. S. , (); see also, e. g., United States v. Shabani, U. S. , – (). To see how this works, consider the word “attempts,” which appears in clause (iv)'s next-door neighbors. See §§ (a)()(A)(i)–(iii). In a criminal prohibition, we would Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court not understand “attempt” in its ordinary sense of “try.” Webster's New Universal Unabridged Dictionary (d ed. ). We would instead understand it to mean taking “a substantial step” toward the completion of a crime with the requisite mens rea. United States v. Resendiz-Ponce, U. S. , (). “Encourages or induces” likewise car- ries a specialized meaning. After all, when a criminal-law term is used in a criminal-law statute, that—in and of itself— is a good clue that it takes its criminal-law meaning. And the inference is even stronger here, because clause (iv) pro- hibits “encouraging” and “inducing” a violation of law. See § (a)()(A)(iv). That is the focus of criminal solicitation and facilitation too. In concluding otherwise, the Ninth Circuit stacked the deck in favor of ordinary meaning. See F. th, at – ; see also United States v. Hernandez-Calvillo, F. th , (CA ) (“Our construction of [the verbs in clause (iv)] begins with their ordinary meaning, not their specialized meaning in criminal law”). But it should have given specialized meaning a fair shake. When words have several plausible defnitions, context differentiates among them. That is just as true when the choice is between ordi- nary and specialized meanings, see, e. g., Corning Glass Works v. Brennan, U. S. , () (“While a layman might well assume that time of day worked refects one as- pect of a job's `working conditions,' the term has a different and much more specifc meaning in the language of industrial relations”), as it is when a court must choose among multiple ordinary meanings, see, e. g., Muscarello v. United States, U. S. , – () (choosing between ordinary meanings of “carry”). Here, the context of these words— the water in which they swim—indicates that Congress used them as terms of art. Statutory history is an important part of this context. In , Congress enacted a law that would become the tem- plate for clause (iv). That law prohibited “knowingly assist- Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court ing, encouraging or soliciting” immigration under a contract to perform labor. Act of Feb. , , ch. , § , Stat. ( Act) (emphasis added). Then, as now, “encourage” had a specialized meaning that channeled accomplice liability. See Bouvier, Law Dictionary (“abet” means “[t]o encour- age or set another on to commit a crime”); Black's Law Dic- tionary () (to “abet” is “[t]o encourage, incite, or set another on to commit a crime”). And the words “assisting” and “soliciting,” which appeared alongside “encouraging” in the Act, reinforce that Congress gave the word “encour- aging” its narrower criminal-law meaning. See Dubin v. United States, U. S. , – () (a word capable of many meanings is refned by its neighbors, which often “ `avoid[s] the giving of unintended breadth to the Acts of Congress' ”). Unsurprisingly, then, when this Court upheld the Act against a constitutional challenge, it explained that Congress “has the power to punish any who assist” in introducing noncitizens into the country—without suggest- ing that the term “encouraging” altered the scope of the pro- hibition. Lees v. United States, U. S. , () (emphasis added). In the ensuing decades, Congress both added to and sub- tracted from the “encouraging” prohibition in the Act. Throughout, it continued to place “encouraging” alongside “assisting” and “soliciting.” See Act of Mar. , , §, Stat. –; Act of Feb. , , § , Stat. . Then, in , Congress added “induce” to the string of verbs. Act of Feb. , , § , Stat. ( Act) (making it a crime “to induce, assist, encourage, or solicit, or attempt to induce, assist, encourage, or solicit the importation or migration of any contract laborer . . . into the United States”). Like “en- courage,” the word “induce” carried solicitation and facilita- tion overtones at the time of this enactment. See Black's Law Dictionary () (defning “inducement” to mean “that which leads or tempts to the commission of crime”). In fact, Congress had just recently used the term in a catch- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court all prohibition on criminal facilitation. See Act of Mar. , , § , Stat. (“Whoever . . . aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces, or procures [the commission of an of- fense], is a principal” (emphasis added)). And as with “en- courage,” the meaning of “induce” was clarifed and nar- rowed by its statutory neighbors in the Act—“assist” and “solicit.” Congress enacted the immediate forerunner of the modern clause (iv) in and, in doing so, simplifed the language from the Act. Most notably, the version dropped the words “assist” and “solicit,” instead making it a crime to “willfully or knowingly encourag[e] or induc[e], or attemp[t] to encourage or induce, either directly or indirectly, the entry into the United States of . . . any alien . . . not lawfully enti- tled to enter or reside within the United States.” Immigra- tion and Nationality Act, § (a)(), Stat. . Three decades later, Congress brought U. S. C. § (a)()(A)(iv) into its current form—still without the words “assist” or “solicit.” Immigration Reform and Control Act of , § (a), Stat. (making it a crime to “encourag[e] or induc[e] an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or residence is or will be in violation of law”). On Hansen's view, these changes dramatically broadened the scope of clause (iv)'s prohibition on encouragement. Be- fore , he says, the words “assist” and “solicit” may have cabined “encourage” and “induce,” but eliminating them sev- ered any connection the prohibition had to solicitation and facilitation. Brief for Respondent –. In other words, Hansen claims, the and revisions show that Con- gress opted to make “protected speech, not conduct, a crime.” Id., at . We do not agree that the mere removal of the words “as- sist” and “solicit” turned an ordinary solicitation and facilita- tion offense into a novel and boundless restriction on speech. Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court Hansen's argument would require us to assume that Con- gress took a circuitous route to convey a sweeping—and con- stitutionally dubious—message. The better understanding is that Congress simply “streamlined” the pre- statutory language—which, as any nonlawyer who has picked up the U. S. Code can tell you, is a commendable effort. F. th, at (opinion of Bumatay, J.). In fact, the streamlined formulation mirrors this Court's own description of the Act, which is further evidence that Congress was engaged in a cleanup project, not a renovation. See United States v. Lem Hoy, U. S. , () (explaining that the Act barred “contract laborers, defned as persons induced or encouraged to come to this country by offers or promises of employment” (emphasis added)); id., at (describing the Act as a “prohibition against employers inducing labor- ers to enter the country” (emphasis added)). And critically, the terms that Congress retained (“encourage” and “induce”) substantially overlap in meaning with the terms it omitted (“assist” and “solicit”). LaFave § .(a). Clause (iv) is best understood as a continuation of the past, not a sharp break from it. C Hansen's primary counterargument is that clause (iv) is missing the necessary mens rea for solicitation and facilita- tion. Brief for Respondent –. Both, as traditionally understood, require that the defendant specifcally intend that a particular act be carried out. Supra, at . “En- courages or induces,” however, is not modifed by any ex- press intent requirement. Because the text of clause (iv) lacks that essential element, Hansen protests, it cannot possi- bly be limited to either solicitation or facilitation. Once again, Hansen ignores the longstanding history of these words. When Congress transplants a common-law term, the “ `old soil' ” comes with it. Taggart v. Lorenzen, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (). So when Congress placed “encourages” and “induces” in clause (iv), the traditional in- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tent associated with solicitation and facilitation was part of the package. That, in fact, is precisely how the federal aiding-and-abetting statute works. It contains no express mens rea requirement, providing only that a person who “aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces or procures” a fed- eral offense is “punishable as a principal.” U. S. C. § (a). Yet, consistent with “a centuries-old view of culpability,” we have held that the statute implicitly incorporates the tradi- tional state of mind required for aiding and abetting. Rose- mond v. United States, U. S. , – (). Clause (iv) is situated among other provisions that work the same way. Consider those that immediately follow it: The frst makes it a crime to “engag[e] in any conspir- acy to commit any of the preceding acts,” U. S. C. § (a)()(A)(v)(I), and the second makes it a crime to “ai[d] or abe[t] the commission of any of the preceding acts,” § (a)()(A)(v)(II). Neither of these clauses explicitly states an intent requirement. Yet both conspiracy and aid- ing and abetting are familiar common-law offenses that con- tain a particular mens rea. See Rosemond, U. S., at (aiding and abetting); Ocasio v. United States, U. S. , – () (conspiracy). Take an obvious example: If the words “aids or abets” in clause (v)(II) were considered in a vacuum, they could be read to cover a person who inadvert- ently helps another commit a § (a)()(A) offense. But a prosecutor who tried to bring such a case would not succeed. Why? Because aiding and abetting implicitly carries a mens rea requirement—the defendant generally must intend to facilitate the commission of a crime. LaFave § .(b). Since “encourages or induces” in clause (iv) draws on the same common-law principles, it too incorporates them implicitly. The Ninth Circuit believed that the Government's “solicitation and fa- cilitation” reading of clause (iv) would create impermissible surplusage with the aiding-and-abetting provision in clause (v)(II). F. th , – (). Hansen does not press that argument before this UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court Still, Hansen reiterates that if Congress had wanted to require intent, it could easily have said so—as it did else- where in clause (iv). The provision requires that the de- fendant encourage or induce an unlawful act and that the defendant “kno[w]” or “reckless[ly] disregard” the fact that the act encouraged “is or will be in violation of law.” § (a)()(A)(iv). Yet while Congress spelled out this re- quirement, it included no express mens rea element for “en- courages or induces.” Indeed, Hansen continues, the stat- ute used to require that the encouragement or inducement be committed “willfully or knowingly,” but Congress deleted those words in . Brief for Respondent . Taken to- gether, Hansen says, this evidence refects that Congress aimed to make a defendant liable for “encouraging or induc- ing” without respect to her state of mind. But there is a simple explanation for why “encourages or induces” is not modifed by an express mens rea require- ment: There is no need for it. At the risk of sounding like a broken record, “encourage” and “induce,” as terms of art, carry the usual attributes of solicitation and facilitation— including, once again, the traditional mens rea. Congress might have rightfully seen the express mens rea require- ment as unnecessary and cut it in a further effort to stream- line clause (iv). And in any event, the omission of the unnec- essary modifer is certainly not enough to overcome the “presumption of scienter” that typically separates wrongful acts “from `otherwise innocent conduct.' ” Xiulu Ruan v. United States, U. S. –––, ––– (); see also Elonis v. United States, U. S. , – (). Nor does the scienter applicable to a distinct element within clause (iv)—that the defendant “kno[w]” or “reck- less[ly] disregard . . . the fact that” the noncitizen's “coming Court—for good reason. Clause (iv) criminalizes the aiding and abetting of an immigration violation, whereas clause (v)(II) prohibits the aiding and abetting of “any of the preceding acts.” In other words, clause (v)(II) applies to aiding and abetting a frst-line facilitator. Another difference: Clause (iv) criminalizes not only facilitation, but solicitation too. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court to, entry, or residence is or will be in violation of law”—tell us anything about the mens rea for “encourages or induces.” Many criminal statutes do not require knowledge of illegal- ity, but rather only “ `factual knowledge as distinguished from knowledge of the law.' ” Bryan v. United States, U. S. , (). So Congress's choice to specify a men- tal state for this element tells us something that we might not normally infer, whereas the inclusion of a mens rea re- quirement for “encourages or induces” would add nothing. It bears emphasis that even if the Government's reading were not the best one, the interpretation is at least “ `fairly possible' ”—so the canon of constitutional avoidance would still counsel us to adopt it. Jennings v. Rodriguez, U. S. –––, ––– (). This canon is normally a valuable ally for criminal defendants, who raise the prospect of unconstitu- tional applications to urge a narrower construction. But Hansen presses the clause toward the most expansive read- ing possible, effectively asking us to apply a canon of “ `con- stitutional collision.' ” F. th, at (opinion of Buma- tay, J.). This tactic is understandable in light of the odd incentives created by the overbreadth doctrine, but it is also wrong. When legislation and the Constitution brush up against each other, our task is to seek harmony, not to manu- facture confict. IV Section (a)()(A)(iv) reaches no further than the pur- poseful solicitation and facilitation of specifc acts known to violate federal law. So understood, the statute does not “prohibi[t] a substantial amount of protected speech” rela- tive to its “plainly legitimate sweep.” Williams, U. S., at . The canon of constitutional avoidance is a problem for the dissent. At- tempting to overcome it, Justice Jackson suggests that the canon has less force in the context of an overbreadth challenge. Post, at –. Our cases offer no support for that proposition. In this context, as in others, ordinary principles of interpretation apply. Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court Start with clause (iv)'s valid reach. Hansen does not dis- pute that the provision encompasses a great deal of non- expressive conduct—which does not implicate the First Amendment at all. Brief for Respondent –. Consider just a few examples: smuggling noncitizens into the country, see United States v. Okatan, F. d , – (CA ); United States v. Yoshida, F. d , – (CA ), providing counterfeit immigration documents, see United States v. Tracy, Fed. Appx. , – (CA ) (per curiam); United States v. Castillo-Felix, F. d , (CA ), and issuing fraudulent Social Security num- bers to noncitizens, see Edwards v. Prime, Inc., F. d , – (CA ). A brief survey of the Federal Reporter confrms that these are heartland clause (iv) pros- ecutions. See F. th, at (opinion of Bumatay, J.) (listing additional examples, including arranging fraudulent marriages and transporting noncitizens on boats). So the “plainly legitimate sweep” of the provision is extensive. When we turn to the other side of the ledger, we fnd it pretty much blank. Hansen fails to identify a single prose- cution for ostensibly protected expression in the years since Congress enacted clause (iv)'s immediate predecessor. Instead, he offers a string of hypotheticals, all premised on the expansive ordinary meanings of “encourage” and “in- duce.” In his view, clause (iv) would punish the author of an op-ed criticizing the immigration system, “[a] minister who welcomes undocumented people into the congregation and expresses the community's love and support,” and a govern- ment offcial who instructs “undocumented members of the community to shelter in place during a natural disaster.” Brief for Respondent –. Yet none of Hansen's examples are fltered through the elements of solicitation or facilita- tion—most importantly, the requirement (which we again re- peat) that a defendant intend to bring about a specifc result. See, e. g., Rosemond, U. S., at . Clause (iv) does not have the scope Hansen claims, so it does not produce the horribles he parades. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court To the extent that clause (iv) reaches any speech, it stretches no further than speech integral to unlawful con- duct. “[I]t has never been deemed an abridgement of free- dom of speech or press to make a course of conduct illegal merely because the conduct was in part initiated, evidenced, or carried out by means of language, either spoken, written, or printed.” Giboney v. Empire Storage & Ice Co., U. S. , (). Speech intended to bring about a particular unlawful act has no social value; therefore, it is unprotected. Williams, U. S., at . We have applied this principle many times, including to the promotion of a particular piece of contraband, id., at , solicitation of unlawful employ- ment, Pittsburgh Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Comm'n on Human Relations, U. S. , (), and picketing with the “sole, unlawful [and] immediate objective” of “induc- [ing]” a target to violate the law, Giboney, U. S., at . It applies to clause (iv) too. Hansen has no quibble with that conclusion to the extent that clause (iv) criminalizes speech that solicits or facilitates a criminal violation, like crossing the border unlawfully or remaining in the country while subject to a removal order. See §§ (a), (a), (a). He agrees that these appli- cations of § (a)()(A)(iv) are permissible—in fact, he con- We also note that a number of clause (iv) prosecutions (like Hansen's) are predicated on fraudulent representations through speech for personal gain. See, e. g., United States v. Sineneng-Smith, F. d , (CA ); United States v. Kalu, F. d , – (CA ). “[F]alse claims [that] are made to effect a fraud or secure moneys or other valuable considerations” are not protected by the First Amendment. United States v. Alvarez, U. S. , () (plurality opinion). These examples increase the list of lawful applications. Overbreadth doctrine traffcks in hypotheticals, so we do not (and can- not) hold that all future applications of clause (iv) will be lawful, nor do we suggest that they will necessarily fall into the speech-integral-to-conduct category. That would require a crystal ball. Nothing in our opinion today precludes a litigant from bringing an as-applied challenge to clause (iv) in the future—whether based on the First Amendment or another constitutional constraint. Page Proof Pending Publication UNITED STATES v. HANSEN Opinion of the Court cedes that he would lose if clause (iv) covered only solicita- tion and facilitation of criminal conduct. Tr. of Oral Arg. –. But he resists the idea that the First Amendment permits Congress to criminalize speech that solicits or facili- tates a civil violation—and some immigration violations are only civil. Brief for Respondent . For instance, residing in the United States without lawful status is subject to the hefty penalty of removal, but it generally does not carry a criminal sentence. See Arizona v. United States, U. S. , (). Call this the “mismatch” theory: Congress can impose criminal penalties on speech that solicits or facilitates a crim- inal violation and civil penalties on speech that solicits or facilitates a civil violation—but it cannot impose criminal penalties on speech that solicits or facilitates a civil violation. See Tr. of Oral Arg. –; Brief for Eugene Volokh as Ami- cus Curiae –. If this theory is sound, then clause (iv) reaches some expression that is outside the speech-integral- to-unlawful-conduct exception. Of course, “that speech is not categorically unprotected does not mean it is immune from regulation, but only that ordinary First Amendment scrutiny would apply.” Brief for Respondent . We need not address this novel theory, because even if Hansen is right, his overbreadth challenge fails. To suc- ceed, he has to show that clause (iv)'s overbreadth is “sub- stantial . . . relative to [its] plainly legitimate sweep.” Wil- liams, U. S., at . As we have discussed, the provision has a wide legitimate reach insofar as it applies to nonexpressive conduct and speech soliciting or facilitating criminal violations of immigration law. Even assuming that clause (iv) reaches some protected speech, and even assum- ing that its application to all of that speech is unconstitu- tional, the ratio of unlawful-to-lawful applications is not lop- sided enough to justify the “strong medicine” of facial invalidation for overbreadth. Broadrick v. Oklahoma, U. S. , (). In other words, Hansen asks us to Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring throw out too much of the good based on a speculative shot at the bad. This is not the stuff of overbreadth—as-applied challenges can take it from here. * * * The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered. Justice Thomas, concurring. I join the Court's opinion in full. I write separately to emphasize how far afeld the facial overbreadth doctrine has carried the Judiciary from its constitutional role. The facial overbreadth doctrine “purports to grant federal courts the power to invalidate a law” that is constitutional as applied to the party before it “ `if a substantial number of its appli- cations are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the stat- ute's plainly legitimate sweep.' ” Americans for Prosperity Foundation v. Bonta, U. S. –––, ––– () (Thomas, J., concurring in part and