Justice Jackson delivered the opinion of the Court. The Bankruptcy Code expressly abrogates the sovereign immunity of “governmental unit[s]” for specifed purposes. U. S. C. § (a). The question presented in this case is whether that express abrogation extends to federally recog- nized Indian tribes. Under our precedents, we will not fnd an abrogation of tribal sovereign immunity unless Congress has conveyed its intent to abrogate in unequivocal terms. That is a high bar. But for the reasons explained below, we fnd it has been satisfed here. I Petitioner Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake Superior Chip- pewa Indians (the Band) is a federally recognized Tribe that wholly owns several business entities. In , one of the Band's businesses, Lendgreen, allowed respondent Brian Coughlin to borrow $, in the form of a high-interest, short-term loan. But Coughlin fled for Chapter bank- ruptcy before he fully repaid the loan. Under the Bankruptcy Code, Coughlin's fling of the bank- ruptcy petition triggered an automatic stay against further collection efforts by creditors, including Lendgreen. See § (a). Yet, according to Coughlin, Lendgreen continued its efforts to collect on his debt, even after it was reminded of the pending bankruptcy petition. Coughlin alleges that Lendgreen was so aggressive in its efforts to contact him and collect the money that he suffered substantial emotional dis- tress, and at one point, even attempted to take his own life. Spruhan, Louis Mallette, Sage Metoxen, John T. Plata, Joseph H. Webster, Kaitlyn E. Klass, and Gregory A. Smith. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the Citizens Equal Rights Foundation by Lawrence A. Kogan; for NACBA et al. by G. Eric Brunstad, Jr., David A. Herman, and Daniel J. Bussel; for Public Citizen et al. by Allison M. Zieve and Scott L. Nelson; and for the Separa- tion of Powers Clinic by R. Trent McCotter. Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court Coughlin eventually fled a motion in Bankruptcy Court, seeking to have the stay enforced against Lendgreen, its par- ent corporations, and the Band (collectively, petitioners). Coughlin also sought damages for emotional distress, along with costs and attorney's fees. See § (k) (providing a damages award to individuals injured by willful violations of the automatic stay). Petitioners moved to dismiss. They argued that the Bankruptcy Court lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over Coughlin's enforcement proceeding, as the Band and its sub- sidiaries enjoyed tribal sovereign immunity from suit. The Bankruptcy Court agreed; it held that the suit had to be dismissed because the Bankruptcy Code did not clearly express Congress's intent to abrogate tribal sovereign immunity. In a divided opinion, the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed, concluding that the Bankruptcy Code “un- equivocally strips tribes of their immunity.” In re Cough- lin, F. th , – (). In so holding, the First Circuit deepened a split among the Courts of Appeals on this question. Compare Krystal Energy Co. v. Navajo Nation, F. d , (CA ) (holding that the Bankruptcy Code abrogates tribal sovereign immunity), with In re Greektown Holdings, LLC, F. d , – (CA ) (concluding the reverse). We granted certiorari to address the lower courts' inconsistent holdings. U. S. ––– (). II A Two provisions of the Bankruptcy Code lie at the crux of this case. The frst— U. S. C. § (a)—abrogates the It is undisputed in this case, and we assume herein, that the Band's subsidiaries are arms of the Tribe and enjoy the Band's sovereign immu- nity. In re Coughlin, F. th , , n. (CA ); In re Coughlin, B. R. , (Bkrtcy. Ct. Mass. ). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court sovereign immunity of “governmental unit[s].” It provides: “Notwithstanding an assertion of sovereign immunity, sover- eign immunity is abrogated as to a governmental unit to the extent set forth in this section.” Section (a) goes on to enumerate a list of Code provisions to which the abrogation applies, including the provision governing automatic stays. The second relevant provision is § (). That provision defnes “governmental unit” for purposes of the Code. It states that that term “means United States; State; Commonwealth; District; Territory; municipality; foreign state; department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States (but not a United States trustee while serving as a trustee in a case under this title), a State, a Commonwealth, a Dis- trict, a Territory, a municipality, or a foreign state; or other foreign or domestic government.” The central question before us is whether the abrogation provision in § (a) and the defnition of “governmental unit” in § (), taken together, unambiguously abrogate the sovereign immunity of federally recognized tribes. B To “abrogate sovereign immunity,” Congress “must make its intent . . . `unmistakably clear in the language of the stat- ute.' ” Financial Oversight and Management Bd. for P. R. v. Centro De Periodismo Investigativo, Inc., U. S. , (). This well-settled rule applies to federally recognized tribes no less than other defendants with sover- eign immunity. Ibid. We have held that tribes possess the “common-law immunity from suit traditionally enjoyed by sovereign powers.” Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, U. S. , (). Our cases have thus repeatedly empha- sized that tribal sovereign immunity, absent a clear state- ment of congressional intent to the contrary, is the “baseline position.” Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Community, U. S. , (). Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court This clear-statement rule is a demanding standard. If “there is a plausible interpretation of the statute” that pre- serves sovereign immunity, Congress has not unambiguously expressed the requisite intent. FAA v. Cooper, U. S. , (); accord, United States v. Nordic Village, Inc., U. S. , (). The rule is not a magic-words requirement, however. To abrogate sovereign immunity unambiguously, “Congress need not state its intent in any particular way.” Cooper, U. S., at . Nor need Congress “make its clear statement in a single [statutory] section.” Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Re- gents, U. S. , (). The clear-statement question is simply whether, upon applying “traditional” tools of statu- tory interpretation, Congress's abrogation of tribal sover- eign immunity is “clearly discernable” from the statute itself. Cooper, U. S., at . III We conclude that the Bankruptcy Code unequivocally ab- rogates the sovereign immunity of any and every govern- ment that possesses the power to assert such immunity. Federally recognized tribes undeniably ft that description; therefore, the Code's abrogation provision plainly applies to them as well. A Several features of the provisions' text and structure com- pel this conclusion. As an initial matter, the defnition of “governmental unit” exudes comprehensiveness from beginning to end. Con- gress has rattled off a long list of governments that vary in geographic location, size, and nature. § () (including municipalities, districts, Territories, Commonwealths, States, the United States, and foreign states). The provi- sion then proceeds to capture subdivisions and components of every government within that list. Ibid. (accounting for any “department, agency, or instrumentality of the United Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court States . . . , a State, a Commonwealth, a District, a Territory, a municipality, or a foreign state”). And it concludes with a broad catchall phrase, sweeping in “other foreign or domestic government[s].” Ibid. When faced with analogously structured provisions in other contexts, we have noted their all-encompassing scope. See, e. g., Taylor v. United States, U. S. , – () (characterizing as “unmistakably broad” a criminal statute defning “commerce” to include a list of specifc in- stances in which the Federal Government would have juris- diction, followed by a broad residual phrase); see also Mari- etta Memorial Hospital Employee Health Beneft Plan v. DaVita Inc., U. S. –––, –––, n. () (similar). We fnd the strikingly broad scope of § ()'s defnition of “govern- mental unit” to be signifcant in this context as well. The catchall phrase Congress used in § () is also nota- ble in and of itself. Few phrases in the English language express all-inclusiveness more than the pairing of two ex- tremes. “Rain or shine” is a classic example: If an event is scheduled to occur rain or shine, it will take place whatever the weather that day might be. Same with the phrase “near and far”: If people are traveling from near and far, they are coming from all over the map, regardless of the particular distance from point A to point B. The pairing of “foreign” with “domestic” is of a piece with those other common expressions. For instance, if someone asks you to identify car manufacturers, “foreign or domes- tic,” your task is to name any and all manufacturers that come to mind, without particular regard to where exactly the cars are made or the location of the companies' headquarters. Similarly, at the start of each Congress, a cadre of newly elected offcials “ `solemnly swear' ” to “ `support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic.' ” U. S. C. § . That oath— which each Member of Congress who enacted the Bank- ruptcy Code took—indisputably pertains to enemies any- Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court where in the world. Accordingly, we fnd that, by coupling foreign and domestic together, and placing the pair at the end of an extensive list, Congress unmistakably intended to cover all governments in § ()'s defnition, whatever their location, nature, or type. It is also signifcant that the abrogation of sovereign im- munity in § (a) plainly applies to all “governmental unit[s]” as defned by § (). Congress did not cherry- pick certain governments from § ()'s capacious list and only abrogate immunity with respect to those it had so se- lected. Nor did Congress suggest that, for purposes of § (a)'s abrogation of sovereign immunity, some types of governments should be treated differently than others. Instead, Congress categorically abrogated the sovereign im- munity of any governmental unit that might attempt to as- sert it. B Other aspects of the Bankruptcy Code reinforce what § (a)'s and § ()'s plain text conveys. Through various provisions, the Bankruptcy Code offers debtors a fresh start by discharging and restructuring their debts in an “orderly and centralized” fashion. See, e. g., Collier on Bankruptcy ¶. (th ed. ); Lamar, Ar- cher & Cofrin, LLP v. Appling, U. S. –––, ––– (). The automatic-stay requirement, for example, keeps credi- tors from “dismember[ing]” the estate while the bankruptcy case proceeds. Chicago v. Fulton, U. S. –––, ––– (); U. S. C. § . The Code's discharge provision enjoins creditors from trying to collect debts that have been discharged in a bankruptcy case. § (a). And its plan- confrmation provisions, as relevant here, “bind . . . each creditor” to whatever repayment plan the bankruptcy court approves, “whether or not the claim of such creditor is provided for by the plan, and whether or not such creditor has objected to, has accepted, or has rejected the plan.” § (a); see also, e. g., §§ (a), (a). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court These protections sweep broadly, by their own terms. To facilitate the Code's “orderly and centralized” debt-resolution process, Collier on Bankruptcy ¶., these provisions' basic requirements generally apply to all creditors. Courts can also enforce these requirements against any kind of noncom- pliant creditor—whether or not the creditor is a “govern- mental unit”—by virtue of § (a)'s abrogation of sovereign immunity. §§ (a)()–(). At the same time, so as to avoid impeding the functioning of governmental entities when they act as creditors, the Code contains a number of limited exceptions. For instance, the automatic-stay requirement does not preclude “govern- mental unit[s]” from enforcing their “police and regulatory power[s]” in certain proceedings, § (b)(), or from pur- suing specifc tax-related activities, §§ (b)(), (), (). The Code additionally exempts from discharge certain debts for a “fne, penalty, or forfeiture” owed to a “governmental unit.” § (a)(). Reading the statute to carve out a subset of governments from the defnition of “governmental unit,” as petitioners' view of the statute would require, risks upending the policy choices that the Code embodies in this regard. That is, de- spite the fact that the Code generally subjects all creditors (including governmental units) to certain overarching re- quirements, under petitioners' reading, some government creditors would be immune from key enforcement proceed- ings while others would face penalties for their noncompli- ance. And while the Code is fnely tuned to accommodate U. S. C. § (a) (the fling of a bankruptcy petition “operates as a stay, applicable to all entities” (emphasis added)); § (b) (providing lim- ited exceptions to the automatic-stay provision, none of which categori- cally exclude a certain type of creditor for all purposes); § (a)() (the discharge of a debt “operates as an injunction against the commencement or continuation of an action . . . to collect, recover or offset any [dis- charged] debt as a personal liability of the debtor” (emphasis added)); § (a) (“The provisions of a confrmed plan bind the debtor and each creditor” (emphasis added)). Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court essential governmental functions (like tax administration and regulation) as a general matter, petitioners would have us fnd that certain governments are excluded from those provisions' reach, notwithstanding the fact that they engage in tax and regulatory activities too. There is no indication that Congress meant to categorically exclude certain govern- ments from these provisions' enforcement mechanisms and exceptions, let alone in such an anomalous manner. Cf. Law v. Siegel, U. S. , () (declining to read into the Code an exception Congress did not include in its “meticu- lous” and “carefully calibrated” scheme). C Our conclusion that all government creditors are subject to abrogation under § (a) brings one remaining question to the fore—whether federally recognized tribes qualify as governments. Petitioners do not seriously dispute that fed- erally recognized tribes are governments, and for good rea- son. Federally recognized tribes exercise uniquely govern- mental functions: “They have power to make their own substantive law in internal matters, and to enforce that law in their own forums.” Santa Clara Pueblo, U. S., at – (citations omitted). They can also “tax activities on the reservation.” Plains Commerce Bank v. Long Family Land & Cattle Co., U. S. , (). It is thus no surprise that Congress has repeatedly charac- terized tribes as governments. And this Court has long See, e. g., Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, § (a)(), Stat. (referring to “the strengthening or improvement of tribal government”); Tribal Self-Governance Act of , §§ (), ()(A), Stat. (“recogniz[ing] a special government-to-government relationship with Indian tribes,” and “transferring control to tribal gov- ernments . . . over funding and decisionmaking for Federal programs”); Compact of Self-Governance Between the Duckwater Shoshone Tribe and the United States of America, Art. I, § (c) () (explaining that the Compact would allow the Tribe to “take its rightful place in the family of Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court recognized tribes' governmental status as well. See, e. g., Bay Mills, U. S., at –; Santa Clara Pueblo, U. S., at –. We have done so generally and also in the specifc context of tribal sovereign immunity. Tribal sover- eign immunity, “we have explained, is `a necessary corollary to Indian sovereignty and self-governance.' ” Bay Mills, U. S., at ; see also id., at (discussing immunity as an example of tribes' “governmental powers and attributes”). Putting the pieces together, our analysis of the question whether the Code abrogates the sovereign immunity of fed- erally recognized tribes is remarkably straightforward. The Code unequivocally abrogates the sovereign immunity of all governments, categorically. Tribes are indisputably governments. Therefore, § (a) unmistakably abrogates their sovereign immunity too. IV Petitioners raise two main arguments in an attempt to sow doubt into these clear statutory provisions. Neither creates the ambiguity petitioners seek. A For their opening salvo, petitioners try to make hay out of the simple fact that neither § () nor § (a) mentions Indian tribes by name. Had Congress wanted to abrogate tribal sovereign immunity, petitioners claim, the most natu- ral and obvious way to have expressed that intent would have been to reference Indian tribes specifcally, rather than smuggle them into a broadly worded catchall phrase. governments in the federal constitutional system,” and “reorganize tribal government programs and services”). Given this holding, we need not decide whether tribes qualify as purely “domestic” governments. Compare Brief for Petitioners (insisting tribes are not clearly domestic governments), and post, at – (Gor- such, J., dissenting) (similar), with Brief for Respondent – (contend- ing that they are). See also infra, at –. Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court But, as explained at the outset, supra, at , the clear- statement rule is not a magic-words requirement. Thus, Congress did not have to include a specifc reference to feder- ally recognized tribes in order to make clear that it intended for tribes to be covered by the abrogation provision. As long as Congress speaks unequivocally, it passes the clear- statement test—regardless of whether it articulated its intent in the most straightforward way. Cooper, U. S., at . Trying a different tack, petitioners point to historical prac- tice. In statute after statute, they say, Congress has spe- cifcally mentioned Indian tribes when abrogating their sov- ereign immunity. And in no case has this Court ever found an abrogation of tribal sovereign immunity where the stat- ute did not reference Indian tribes explicitly. See Brief for Petitioners –. These statistics sound quite noteworthy at frst glance. But they do not move the needle in this case. For one thing, none of petitioners' cited examples involved a statutory pro- vision that was worded analogously to, and structured like, the ones at issue here. Moreover, the universe of cases in which we have addressed federal statutes abrogating tribal sovereign immunity is exceedingly slim. Petitioners rely, for instance, on the Resource Conservation and Recov- ery Act of , which authorizes a “person” to “commence a civil action.” U. S. C. § (a). “Person” is defned under that statute to include a “municipality,” which is in turn defned to encompass “a city, town, bor- ough, county, parish, district, or other public body created by or pursuant to State law . . . or an Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization.” §§ (), (); see also Brief for Petitioners (citing similar provisions). The fact that Congress mentioned Indian tribes specifcally when including them in the category of a “person” or “municipality” says little about Con- gress's purported need to name Indian tribes when referring to them as a “governmental unit” or “other foreign or domestic government.” The parties' briefng identifes only two cases. See Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Community, U. S. , () (recognizing partial abrogation); United States v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., U. S. , (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court In any event, the fact that Congress has referenced tribes specifcally in some statutes abrogating tribal sovereign im- munity does not foreclose it from using different language to accomplish that same goal in other statutory contexts. Even petitioners appear to concede this basic point. They agree that Congress could have used a phrase like “every government” or “any government with sovereign immunity” to express unambiguously the requisite intent to abrogate the sovereign immunity of tribes. Id., at (internal quota- tion marks omitted). For the reasons discussed above, we believe Congress did just that. B Petitioners further contend that even if the relevant provi- sions could theoretically cover tribes, the statute can plausi- bly be read in a way that preserves their immunity. According to petitioners, the catchall phrase “other foreign or domestic government” might simply capture entities cre- ated through “interstate compacts,” which cannot neatly be characterized as a State or an instrumentality of a State under § ()'s enumerated list. Id., at – (internal quotation marks omitted). Interpreted in that fashion, peti- tioners maintain, the catchall phrase would exclude govern- mental entities that are not purely foreign or purely domes- tic—like tribes or the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Tr. of Oral Arg. –. If this interpretation of the statute sounds far-fetched, that is because it is. To fnd petitioners' construction plausi- ble, we would have to interpret “other foreign or domestic government” to impose a rigid division between foreign governments on the one hand and domestic governments on the other, leaving out any governmental entity that may have both foreign and domestic characteristics (like tribes or the IMF). But Congress has expressly instructed that the Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court word “or,” as used in the Code, “is not exclusive.” U. S. C. § (). As a result, we have serious doubts that Congress meant for § () to elicit the laser focus on “or” that petitioners' reading of “foreign or domestic” would entail. The dissent's own arguments undermine any suggestion that Congress adopted such a siloed view. For instance, the dissent repeatedly paints tribes as occupying a hybrid posi- tion between foreign and domestic, post, at , – (opinion of Gorsuch, J.), and posits that Territories histori- cally share this hybrid status as well, post, at (describing Territories as tribes' “close comparator”). Yet, as the dis- sent readily acknowledges, Congress expressly included Ter- ritories within § ()'s defnition of “governmental unit.” If, on the dissent's own account, Territories are “neither for- eign nor domestic,” ibid.—and fall within § ()'s purview nevertheless—it is hard to see how § ()'s catchall phrase would simultaneously exclude other entities that share that same feature. § () (“ `governmental unit' means United States; State; . . . Territory; . . . foreign state; or other foreign or domestic government” (emphasis added)). Our dissenting colleague puts forth two hypotheticals that supposedly cast doubt on this conclusion. See post, at – (opinion of Gorsuch, J.). The frst involves choosing a pet that is “ `small or a dog,' ” while the second concerns an offer to have “chocolate or vanilla” ice cream. Ibid. But these hypotheticals are not remotely analogous to “foreign or domes- tic.” For one thing, the terms “foreign” and “domestic” are two poles on a spectrum. See supra, at –. Neither “small” and “dog” nor “chocolate” and “vanilla” ft that bill. For another, whereas the pairing of “foreign” and “domestic” often covers the waterfront, see ibid., the dissent's hypothetical pairings do not have that same effect. And unlike animals (which need not be small or doglike) or ice creams (which need not be chocolate or vanilla), every government must be foreign or domestic to some degree; the question is just where on the spectrum it falls. See post, at (observing that the Constitution “appear[s] to `place Indian [T]ribes in an intermediate category between foreign and domestic states' ”); post, at (tribes occupy a “ `hybrid position' between `foreign and domestic states' ”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court In any case, neither petitioners nor the dissent explain why the Code would draw such a line in the sand. None of the carefully calibrated exceptions noted in Part III–B, supra, for governmental units performing regulatory and tax-related functions turn on whether a government is purely foreign or domestic. Likewise, it is hard to see why the Code would subject purely foreign or domestic govern- ments to enforcement proceedings while at the same time immunizing government creditors that have both foreign and domestic attributes. Considering that the one thing every entity in § ()'s enumerated list has in common is its gov- ernmental nature—and that is the same characteristic that matters when the Code addresses “governmental unit[s]” from one provision to the next—we are highly skeptical that Congress distinguished between governments in the way petitioners suggest. Undaunted, petitioners note that Congress has historically treated various types of governments differently for pur- poses of bankruptcy law. Tr. of Oral Arg. –; Reply Brief . They assert that, in the decades leading up to the Bankruptcy Code's enactment, bankruptcy law afforded cer- tain benefts to “ `the United States or any State or any sub- division thereof,' ” leaving out entities that did not fall into one of those enumerated categories. Reply Brief (quot- ing § (a)(), Stat. ). Even if petitioners' understanding of this history is cor- rect, they have failed to demonstrate that the Code carried For example, the Code defnes “domestic support obligation” to include debts “owed to or recoverable by” spouses as well as “governmental unit[s].” §(A). And the term “person” covers an “individual, part- nership, and corporation,” as well as a “governmental unit that . . . ac- quires an asset from a person . . . as a result of the operation of a loan guarantee agreement” or “as receiver or liquidating agent of a person.” §(). The main feature that sets “governmental unit[s]” apart from other entities mentioned in these defnitions is their governmental nature. Page Proof Pending Publication LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA INDIANS v. COUGHLIN Opinion of the Court forward any such differential treatment. Congress ushered in “a new, unprecedented era in bankruptcy practice” when it enacted the Code in . W. Norton, Bankruptcy Law and Practice § :, p. - (d ed. ); Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co., U. S. , – () (plurality opinion) (describing the Code as “a compre- hensive revision of the bankruptcy laws”). Both § ()'s defnition of “governmental unit” and § (a)'s abrogation of sovereign immunity were some of the many changes Con- gress made. The prior statute did not provide a general defnition for governmental entities, much less include any provision expressly abrogating governments' sovereign im- munity. Instead, it set forth a general defnition for “States,” which encompassed Territories, possessions, and the District of Columbia. Stat. . Then, in each provi- sion where governmental entities were relevant, Congress specifed the particular governmental entities to which that provision pertained. See, e. g., § (), id., at (exempting from discharge debts “due as a tax levied by the United States, or any State, county, district, or municipality”); id., at (providing priority status to “the United States or any State or any subdivision thereof”). Section ()'s defnition of “governmental unit” has an undeniably broader reach than the statutory provisions that preceded it. Section ()'s defnition includes, for in- stance, foreign countries and instrumentalities, when such entities had generally been previously absent. And the ex- pansive defnition of “governmental unit” in § () applies throughout the Bankruptcy Code. In addition, for those who fnd legislative history useful, the Senate and House Re- ports that accompanied the Code indicate that “governmen- tal unit” was intended to be defned “in the broadest sense.” S. Rep. No. –, p. (); H. R. Rep. No. –, p. (). When Congress later added § (a)'s abrogation provision, it was that comprehensive defnition of govern- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J.,