of identifcation itself is at the crux of the underlying criminality, not just an ancillary billing feature. Pp. –. (e) In contrast to the staggering breadth of the Government's reading of §A, this Court has “ `traditionally exercised restraint in assessing the reach of a federal criminal statute,' ” Marinello v. United States, U. S. –––, –––, and prudently avoided reading incongruous breadth into opaque language in criminal statutes. See, e. g., Van Buren v. United States, U. S. –––. The vast sweep of the Government's read- ing—under which everyday overbilling cases would account for the ma- jority of violations—“underscores the implausibility of the Govern- ment's interpretation.” Id., at –––. While the Government represents that prosecutors will act responsibly in charging defendants under its sweeping reading, this Court “cannot construe a criminal statute on the assumption that the Government will `use it responsibly.' ” McDon- nell, U. S., at . Pp. –. F. th , vacated and remanded. Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Thomas, Alito, Kagan, Kavanaugh, Barrett, and Jackson, JJ., joined. Gorsuch, J., fled an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. . Jeffrey L. Fisher argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs were Pamela S. Karlan, Easha Anand, Anton Metlitsky, Bruce Pettig, Jason Zarrow, and Michael C. Gross. Vivek Suri argued the cause for the United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Prelogar, Assistant Attorney General Polite, Deputy Solicitor General Feigin, and Kevin J. Barber.* Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court. There is no dispute that petitioner David Fox Dubin over- billed Medicaid for psychological testing. The question is whether, in defrauding Medicaid, he also committed “[a]ggra- vated identity theft,” U. S. C. § A(a)(), triggering a *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the National Asso- ciation of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Henry W. Asbill, Jill Winter, and Barbara E. Bergman; for the National Association of Federal Defenders by Andrew L. Adler, Judith H. Mizner, Davina T. Chen, and Shelley Fite; and for Joel S. Johnson by Mr. Johnson, pro se. Page Proof Pending Publication DUBIN v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court mandatory -year prison sentence. The Fifth Circuit found that he did, based on a reading of the statute that covers defendants who fraudulently infate the price of a service or good they actually provided. On that sweeping reading, as long as a billing or payment method employs another per- son's name or other identifying information, that is enough. A lawyer who rounds up her hours from . to and bills her client electronically has committed aggravated identity theft. The same is true of a waiter who serves fank steak but charges for flet mignon using an electronic payment method. The text and context of the statute do not support such a boundless interpretation. Instead, § A(a)() is violated when the defendant's misuse of another person's means of identifcation is at the crux of what makes the underlying offense criminal, rather than merely an ancillary feature of a billing method. Here, the crux of petitioner's overbilling was infating the value of services actually provided, while the patient's means of identifcation was an ancillary part of the Medicaid billing process. I David Dubin helped his father manage a psychological services company. This company submitted a claim for re- imbursement to Medicaid for psychological testing by a li- censed psychologist. In fact, however, the claim overstated the qualifcations of the employee who actually performed the testing and who was only a licensed psychological associ- ate. This falsehood infated the amount of reimbursement. Petitioner also changed the date on which the examination occurred. Even with the infation, the total reimbursement was only $. App. . Petitioner was accordingly charged with healthcare fraud, a federal offense under The parties dispute whether changing the date affected the availability of Medicaid reimbursement. The Court does not reach that question, as the outcome of this case would be the same either way. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court U. S. C. § . According to the Government, however, petitioner's conduct also constituted “[a]ggravated identity theft” under § A(a)(). Section A(a)() applies when a defendant, “during and in relation to any [predicate offense], knowingly transfers, possesses, or uses, without lawful authority, a means of iden- tifcation of another person.” The predicate offenses in- clude, among many others, healthcare fraud. § A(c)(). Section A(a)() carries a severe penalty: a mandatory minimum sentence of two years in prison “in addition to the punishment” for the predicate offense. According to the Government, this is a clear aggravated identity theft case. The Government argued at trial that § A(a)() was automatically satisfed because petitioner's fraudulent billing included the patient's Medicaid reimburse- ment number (a “means of identifcation”). The District Court was less sure. “[T]his doesn't seem to be an aggra- vated identity theft case,” the court explained, as “the whole crux of this case is how [petitioner was] billing.” App. – . This overbilling was “criminal,” but it “wasn't aggra- vated identity theft.” Id., at . Nevertheless, the District Court denied petitioner's post-trial challenge to his aggra- vated identity theft conviction, explaining that contrary Fifth Circuit precedent tied its hands. The court said that it “hope[d]” it would “get reversed.” Id., at . On appeal, a Fifth Circuit panel affrmed. On rehearing en banc, a fractured court affrmed again. Five judges who agreed with the Government nonetheless acknowledged that under the Government's reading of § A(a)(), “the ele- ments of [the] offense are not captured or even fairly de- scribed by the words `identity theft.' ” F. th , () (Richman, C. J., concurring). Eight dissenting judges agreed on this point. This type of prosecution is not uncommon. The Govern- ment has, by its own admission, wielded § A(a)() well beyond ordinary understandings of identity theft. One DUBIN v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court prosecution targeted a defendant who “made a counterfeit handgun permit” for another person, using that person's real name and at that person's request. United States v. Spears, F. d , (CA ) (en banc). Another involved unlicensed doctors who violated the law by “issu[ing] pre- scriptions that their [actual] patients would then fll at . . . pharmacies.” United States v. Berroa, F. d , , – (CA ). There was also a prosecution involving an ambulance service infating its reimbursement rates by “mischaracteriz[ing] the nature of the transports, saying that the patients had required stretchers when they had not.” United States v. Michael, F. d , (CA ) (cit- ing United States v. Medlock, F. d , (CA )). Yet another prosecution involved a defendant who “provided massage services to patients to treat their pain,” but improp- erly billed this “as a Medicare-eligible physical therapy serv- ice.” United States v. Hong, F. d , (CA ). Many lower courts have responded to such prosecutions with more restrained readings of the aggravated identity theft statute. The Fifth Circuit did not. To resolve the confict in the courts below, this Court granted certiorari, U. S. ––– (), and now vacates the judgment of the Fifth Circuit and remands. II A This case turns on two of § A(a)()'s elements. Of the various possible ways to violate § A(a)(), petitioner was convicted for “us[ing]” a patient's means of identifcation “in See Berroa, F. d, at , –; Michael, F. d, at ; Spears, F. d, at ; Hong, F. d, at . The Government argued below that because petitioner did not properly raise certain challenges to his § A conviction, he cannot obtain relief without meeting the higher bar for plain-error review. The Fifth Circuit below did not decide that question, which this Court leaves for remand. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court relation to” healthcare fraud. The parties offer competing readings of these two elements. The Government reads the terms broadly and in isolation. On the Government's view, “[a] defendant uses a means of identifcation `in relation to' a predicate offense if the use of that means of identifcation `facilitates or furthers' the predi- cate offense in some way.” Brief for United States (quot- ing Smith v. United States, U. S. , ()). As to “uses,” the Government seems just to mean “employ[s]” in any sense. Brief for United States , , –. Section A(a)() would thus apply automatically any time a name or other means of identifcation happens to be part of the payment or billing method used in the commission of a long list of predicate offenses. In other words, virtually all of the time. Petitioner, in response, offers a more targeted reading. For petitioner, using a means of identifcation in relation to a predicate offense requires “a genuine nexus to the predicate offense.” Brief for Petitioner . On this reading, the means of identifcation is at the crux of what makes the pred- icate offense criminal, rather than merely an ancillary fea- ture of a payment method. When the underlying crime in- volves fraud or deceit, as many of § A's predicates do, this entails using a means of identifcation specifcally in a fraudulent or deceitful manner. To illustrate, petitioner borrows a heuristic from the Sixth Circuit. See Michael, F. d, at . The relevant lan- guage in § A(a)() “covers misrepresenting who received a certain service,” but not “fraudulent claims regarding how or when a service was performed.” Brief for Petitioner . In other words, fraud going to identity, not misrepresenta- tion about services actually provided. Take an ambulance service that actually transported patients but infated the number of miles driven. The crux of this fraud was “how” services were rendered; the patients' names were part of the billing process, but ancillary to what made the conduct fraud- Page Proof Pending Publication DUBIN v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court ulent. See Michael, F. d, at –. In contrast, take the pharmacist who swipes information from the phar- macy's fles and uses it to open a bank account in a patient's name. That “misuse of th[e] means of identifcation” would be “integral to” what made the conduct fraudulent, because misrepresentation about who was involved was at the crux of the fraud. Id., at . In deciding between the parties' readings, one limited and one near limitless, precedent and prudence require a careful examination of § A(a)()'s text and structure. While “uses” and “in relation to” are, in isolation, indeterminate, the statutory context, taken as a whole, points to a nar- rower reading. B In interpreting the scope of “uses” and “in relation to,” the Court begins with those terms themselves. Both terms have been singled out by this Court as particularly sensitive to context, and they do not, standing alone, conclusively re- solve this case. Start with “uses.” As the Court has observed more than once, “the word `use' poses some interpretational diffculties because of the different meanings attributable to it.” Bai- ley v. United States, U. S. , (); see also Leocal v. Ashcroft, U. S. , (). The “ `ordinary or natural' meaning” of “ `use' ” is “variously defned as `[t]o convert to one's service,' `to employ,' `to avail oneself of,' and `to carry out a purpose or action by means of.' ” Bailey, U. S., at . “These various defnitions of `use' imply action and implementation.” Ibid. Beyond that general concept, however, “ `use' takes on different meanings depending on context,” and because it “draws meaning from its context, . . . we will look not only to the word itself, but also to the statute and the [surrounding] scheme, to determine the meaning Congress intended.” Id., at ; see also Leocal, U. S., at (“Particularly when interpreting a statute that features as elastic a word as `use,' we construe language in its context and in light of the terms surrounding it”). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court For example, the federal arson statute only applies to buildings “ `used in' commerce or commerce-affecting activ- ity.” Jones v. United States, U. S. , – (). In that statutory context, the Court distinguished between uses of a building as “the locus of any commercial undertak- ing,” and noncovered “passive,” “passing,” or ancillary uses of a building “as collateral to obtain and secure a mortgage” or to obtain an insurance policy. Id., at –. It is statutory context, therefore, that determines what kind of active employment or conversion to one's service triggers § A(a)()'s harsh penalty. “In relation to” is similarly context sensitive. If “ `relate to' were taken to extend to the furthest stretch of its indeter- minacy, then for all practical purposes” there would be no limits, as “ `[r]eally, universally, relations stop nowhere.' ” New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., U. S. , () (quoting H. James, Roderick Hudson xli (New York ed., World's Clas- sics )). This language thus cannot be “considered in iso- lation,” Maracich v. Spears, U. S. , (), and the Court must “go beyond the unhelpful text and the frustrat- ing diffculty of defning [this] key term” and look to statu- tory context. Travelers, U. S., at . That the phrase refers to a relationship or nexus of some kind is clear. See Smith, U. S., at (“ `[I]n relation to' ” requires “some purpose or effect” between two things). Yet the kind of re- lationship required, its nature and strength, will be informed by context. The presence of two such context-dependent terms ren- ders § A(a)() doubly attuned to its surroundings. The parties' competing readings both fall within the range of meanings of “uses” and “in relation to,” taken alone. Resort to context is thus especially necessary here. The Government tries to head off any contextual analysis at the pass, urging that “uses” and “during and in relation to” in § A(a)() must be read identically to Smith and other of this Court's cases interpreting U. S. C. § (c)()(A). That provision applies to “any person who, dur- DUBIN v. UNITED STATES Opinion of the Court C Having found the key terms “use” and “in relation to” in- determinate, the next step is to look to their surrounding words. After all, “a statute's meaning does not always turn solely on the broadest imaginable defnitions of its compo- nent words.” Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis, U. S. –––, ––– () (internal quotation marks omitted). Instead, “[l]inguistic and statutory context also matter.” Ibid. Even in cases where “the literal language of the statute is neutral” in isolation, reading “the whole phrase” can point to a more targeted reading. Marinello v. United States, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (). Such is the case here. Section A(a)()'s title and terms both point to a narrower reading, one centered around the ordinary understanding of identity theft. This cuts against the Government's broad reading, which the Govern- ment admits bears little relationship to the common under- standing of identity theft. In contrast, a more targeted reading accurately captures the ordinary understanding of identity theft, where misuse of a means of identifcation is at the crux of the criminality. Start at the top, with the words Congress chose for § A's title: “Aggravated identity theft.” Stat. . This Court has long considered that “ `the title of a stat- ing and in relation to any crime of violence or drug traffcking crime . . . uses or carries a frearm.” One need look no further than this Court's § (c) case law to see why this argument fails. The teaching of those cases is that because “use” “draws meaning from its context, . . . we will look not only to the word itself, but also to the statute and the [broader] scheme.” Bailey v. United States, U. S. , (). Section A(a)() differs greatly from § (c), from the thing that is “used,” to the title, to the nature of the predicate offenses to which the enhancement relates. Words can wound, but names and numbers are not guns. If any- thing, the ubiquity of names and their vast range of “uses” makes the verb especially indeterminate in this context. For that same reason, the Court's decision today does not alter its § (c) case law. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court ute and the heading of a section' are `tools available for the resolution of a doubt' about the meaning of a statute.” Almendarez-Torres v. United States, U. S. , () (quoting Trainmen v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., U. S. , – ()). A title will not, of course, “override the plain words” of a statute. Fulton v. Philadelphia, U. S. –––, ––– (). Yet here, the key terms are so “elastic” that they must be construed “in light of the terms surrounding [them],” Leocal, U. S., at , and the title Congress chose is among those terms. Even the Government acknowledged that if the terms in §A(a)() are unclear, “the title is a useful clue.” Tr. of Oral Arg. . Two additional points bolster this approach. First, the title here is not serving the unenviable role of pithily summa- rizing a list of “complicated and prolifc” provisions. Train- men, U. S., at . Section A is a focused, stand- alone provision. Second, a title is “especially valuable [where] it reinforces what the text's nouns and verbs inde- pendently suggest.” Yates v. United States, U. S. , () (Alito, J.,