Justice Gorsuch announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I and III–B, and an opinion with respect to Parts II, III–A, and IV, in which Justice Thomas, Justice Soto- mayor, and Justice Jackson join. Imagine a lawsuit based on recent events. A few months ago, a Norfolk Southern train derailed in Ohio near the Penn- sylvania border. Its cargo? Hazardous chemicals. Some poured into a nearby creek; some burst into fames. In the aftermath, many residents reported unusual symptoms. Suppose an Ohio resident sued the train conductor seeking compensation for an illness attributed to the accident. Sup- pose, too, that the plaintiff served his complaint on the con- ductor across the border in Pennsylvania. Everyone before us agrees a Pennsylvania court could hear that lawsuit consistent with the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The court could do so even if the conductor was a Virginia resident who just happened to be passing through Pennsylvania when the process server caught up with him. Now, change the hypothetical slightly. Imagine the same Ohio resident brought the same suit in the same Pennsylva- nia state court, but this time against Norfolk Southern. As- sume, too, the company has fled paperwork consenting to appear in Pennsylvania courts as a condition of registering to do business in the Commonwealth. Could a Pennsylvania court hear that case too? You might think so. But today, Linda H. Martin, and David Y. Livshiz; and for Tanya Monestier by Sean Marotta. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Scholars on Corporate Registration and Jurisdiction by Andrew S. Pollis; for United Policyholders by George M. Plews, Peter M. Racher, Kevin M. Toner, Christopher E. Kozak, and Richard B. Oatis; and for U. S. Terror Victims by Eric Citron. See U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, East Palestine, Ohio Train Derailment (June , ), https://www.epa.gov/east-palestine-oh-train- derailment. Page Proof Pending Publication MALLORY v. NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. Opinion of the Court Norfolk Southern argues that the Due Process Clause enti- tles it to a more favorable rule, one shielding it from suits even its employees must answer. We reject the company's argument. Nothing in the Due Process Clause requires such an incongruous result. I Robert Mallory worked for Norfolk Southern as a freight- car mechanic for nearly years, frst in Ohio, then in Vir- ginia. During his time with the company, Mr. Mallory con- tends, he was responsible for spraying boxcar pipes with asbestos and handling chemicals in the railroad's paint shop. He also demolished car interiors that, he alleges, contained carcinogens. After Mr. Mallory left the company, he moved to Pennsyl- vania for a period before returning to Virginia. Along the way, he was diagnosed with cancer. Attributing his illness to his work for Norfolk Southern, Mr. Mallory hired Pennsyl- vania lawyers and sued his former employer in Pennsylvania state court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, Stat. , as amended, U. S. C. §§ –. That law creates a workers' compensation scheme permitting railroad employ- ees to recover damages for their employers' negligence. See Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. Sorrell, U. S. , – (). Norfolk Southern resisted Mr. Mallory's suit on constitu- tional grounds. By the time he fled his complaint, the com- pany observed, Mr. Mallory resided in Virginia. His com- plaint alleged that he was exposed to carcinogens in Ohio and Virginia. Meanwhile, the company itself was incorpo- rated in Virginia and had its headquarters there too. On these facts, Norfolk Southern submitted, any effort by a Pennsylvania court to exercise personal jurisdiction over it would offend the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. After Mr. Mallory commenced this suit, Norfolk Southern relocated its headquarters to Georgia. See Brief for Respondent . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Mr. Mallory saw things differently. He noted that Norfolk Southern manages over , miles of track, operates rail yards, and runs locomotive repair shops in Pennsylvania. He also pointed out that Norfolk Southern has registered to do business in Pennsylvania in light of its “ `regular, system- atic, [and] extensive' ” operations there. A. d , (Pa. ); see Pa. Cons. Stat. § (a) (). That is signifcant, Mr. Mallory argued, because Pennsylvania re- quires out-of-state companies that register to do business in the Commonwealth to agree to appear in its courts on “any cause of action” against them. Pa. Cons. Stat. § (a) ()(i), (b) (); see A. d, at . By complying with this statutory scheme, Mr. Mallory contended, Norfolk Southern had consented to suit in Pennsylvania on claims just like his. Ultimately, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court sided with Norfolk Southern. Yes, Mr. Mallory correctly read Pennsyl- vania law. It requires an out-of-state frm to answer any suits against it in exchange for status as a registered foreign corporation and the benefts that entails. Id., at –. But, no, the court held, Mr. Mallory could not invoke that law because it violates the Due Process Clause. Id., at – . In reaching this conclusion, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court acknowledged its disagreement with the Georgia Su- preme Court, which had recently rejected a similar due proc- ess argument from a corporate defendant. Id., at , n. (citing Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. v. McCall, Ga. , S. E. d ()). In light of this split of authority, we agreed to hear this case and decide whether the Due Process Clause of the Four- teenth Amendment prohibits a State from requiring an out- of-state corporation to consent to personal jurisdiction to do business there. U. S. ––– (). The Pennsylvania Supreme Court did not address Norfolk Southern's alternative argument that Pennsylvania's statutory scheme as applied here violates this Court's dormant Commerce Clause doctrine. See Page Proof Pending Publication MALLORY v. NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. Opinion of Gorsuch, J. II The question before us is not a new one. In truth, it is a very old question—and one this Court resolved in Pennsyl- vania Fire Ins. Co. of Philadelphia v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., U. S. (). There, the Court unani- mously held that laws like Pennsylvania's comport with the Due Process Clause. Some background helps explain why the Court reached the result it did. Both at the time of the founding and the Fourteenth Amendment's adoption, the Anglo-American legal tradition recognized that a tribunal's competence was generally con- strained only by the “territorial limits” of the sovereign that created it. J. Story, Commentaries on the Confict of Laws § , pp. – () (Story); see also United States v. Union Pacifc R. Co., U. S. , – (). That principle applied to all kinds of actions, but cashed out differ- ently based on the object of the court's attention. So, for example, an action in rem that claimed an interest in immov- able property was usually treated as a “local” action that could be brought only in the jurisdiction where the property was located. W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England –, (). Meanwhile, an in personam suit against an individual “for injuries that might have hap- pened any where” was generally considered a “transitory” action that followed the individual. Id., at . All of which meant that a suit could be maintained by anyone on any claim in any place the defendant could be found. Story § , at . American courts routinely followed these rules. Chief Justice Marshall, for one, was careful to distinguish between local and transitory actions in a case brought by a Virginia plaintiff against a Kentucky defendant based on a fraud per- petrated in Ohio. Massie v. Watts, Cranch , – A. d, at –, nn. , . Nor did we grant review to consider that question. Accordingly, any argument along those lines remains for con- sideration on remand. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion Gorsuch, J. (). Because the action was a transitory one that fol- lowed the individual, he held, the suit could be maintained “wherever the [defendant] may be found.” Id., at , – ; see also, e. g., Livingston v. Jefferson, F. Cas. , – (No. ,) (CC Va. ) (opinion of Marshall, C. J.); Peabody v. Hamilton, Mass. , – (); Bissell v. Briggs, Mass. , – (). This rule governing transitory actions still applies to natu- ral persons today. Some call it “tag” jurisdiction. And our leading case applying the rule is not so old. See Burnham v. Superior Court of Cal., County of Marin, U. S. (). The case began with Dennis Burnham's business trip to California. Id., at (plurality opinion). During his short visit, Mr. Burnham's estranged wife served him with a summons to appear in California state court for di- vorce proceedings. Ibid. This Court unanimously ap- proved the state court's exercise of personal jurisdiction over Mr. Burnham as consistent with the Due Process Clause— and did so even though the Burnhams had spent nearly all their married life in New Jersey and Mr. Burnham still re- sided there. See id., at –, –; id., at (White, J., concurring in part and