Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court. In these cases we consider whether the admissions sys- tems used by Harvard College and the University of North Virginia, and Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia; for the State of Texas by Ken Paxton, Attorney General of Texas, Judd E. Stone II, Solicitor General, Lanora C. Pettit, Principal Deputy Solicitor General, Rance Craft, Assistant Solicitor General, and Brent Webster, First Assistant At- torney General; for the American Center for Law and Justice et al. by Jay Alan Sekulow, Stuart J. Roth, Jordan A. Sekulow, Colby M. May, and Walter M. Weber; for the Californians for Equal Rights Foundation by Daniel I. Morenoff; for the Defense of Freedom Institute for Policy Stud- ies by John C. Sullivan; for Economists by C. Boyden Gray, R. Trent McCotter, and Jonathan Berry; for the Hamilton Lincoln Law Institute et al. by Theodore H. Frank, Anna St. John, and Ilya Shapiro, pro se; for the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law et al. by Jonathan A. Vogel; for the National Association of Scholars by Dennis J. Saffran; for the Pacifc Legal Foundation et al. by Joshua P. Thompson, Anastasia P. Boden, Wencong Fa, and Alison Somin; for Project by David H. Thompson, Peter A. Patterson, John D. Ohlendorf, and Megan M. Wold; for United States Senators et al. by R. Shawn Gunnarson; and for Mark Keith Robinson et al. by Thomas Brejcha and B. Tyler Brooks. A brief of amicus curiae urging vacatur in both cases was fled for F. Andrew Hessick by Richard A. Simpson and Mr. Hessick, pro se. Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in No. – were fled for the America First Legal Foundation by Jonathan F. Mitchell and Gene P. Hamilton; and for the for the Foundation Against Intolerance & Racism by Mary E. Keane. A brief of amici curiae urging vacatur was fled for Fiona A. Harrison by Alan B. Morrison in No. –. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in both cases were fled for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts et al. by Maura Healey, Attorney Gen- eral of Massachusetts, Elizabeth N. Dewar, State Solicitor, and Ann E. Lynch and David Ureña, Assistant Attorneys General, by Karl A. Racine, Attorney General of the District of Columbia, by Matthew J. Platkin, Act- ing Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Rob Bonta of California, Philip J. Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of Delaware, Holly T. Shikada of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Keith Ellison of Minne- sota, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Letitia James of New York, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Josh Shapiro of Penn- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Carolina, two of the oldest institutions of higher learning in the United States, are lawful under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. sylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Robert W. Ferguson of Wash- ington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for Admissions and Testing Pro- fessionals by Daniel D. Doyle; for the American Bar Association by Reginald M. Turner, Jr., Loretta Lynch, Sidney Rosdeitcher, Jaren Jan- ghorbani, Jennifer H. Wu, Josephine Young, and Johan E. Tatoy; for the American Civil Liberties Union et al. by Sarah Hinger, Jennesa Calvo- Friedman, ReNika Moore, David D. Cole, Matthew R. Segal, and Kristi L. Graunke; for the American Council on Education et al. by Jessica L. Ellsworth, Madelyn F. Wessel, and Johannah Walker; for the American Educational Research Association et al. by Angelo N. Ancheta; for the American Federation of Teachers by Kevin K. Russell, Rhonda Weingar- ten, and David J. Strom; for the American G. I. Forum et al. by Elizabeth A. Ritvo, Joshua P. Dunn, Lourdes M. Rosado, and Francisca Fajana; for the American Psychological Association et al. by Melissa Arbus Sherry, Deanne M. Ottaviano, and Nathalie Gilfoyle; for Amherst College et al. by Mark D. Harris and John E. Roberts; for Applied Materials, Inc., et al. by Mark S. Davies, Thomas M. Bondy, Katherine M. Kopp, E. Joshua Rosenkranz, and Darren S. Teshima; for the Asian American Legal De- fense and Education Fund et al. by Dean Richlin, Madeleine K. Rodri- guez, and Bethany Li; for Asian Americans Advancing Justice et al. by Roberto A. Rivera-Soto, Michael R. McDonald, Niyati Shah, Eri Andri- ola, Winifred Kao, and Laboni Hoq; for the Association of American Medi- cal Colleges et al. by Jonathan S. Franklin, Peter B. Siegal, Heather J. Alarcon, and Frank R. Trinity; for Black Women Law Scholars by Ray- mond P. Tolentino and Joshua Matz; for Brown University et al. by Mat- thew S. Hellman, Ishan K. Bhabha, and Lauren J. Hartz; for the Constitu- tional Accountability Center by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and David H. Gans; for the Council of the Great City Schools by John W. Borkowski, Aleksandra O. Rushing, and Julie Wright Halbert; for Deans of U. S. Law Schools by David B. Oppenheimer; for Faith Organizations by Corrine Irish and Keith Bradley; for Georgetown University et al. by Crystal Nix-Hines, Kathleen M. Sullivan, and Justin T. Reinheimer; for HBCU Leaders et al. by Laurel Pyke Malson and Amanda Shafer Ber- man; for the HR Policy Association by G. Roger King and Jacquelyn L. Thompson; for the Law Firm Antiracism Alliance by Stephen R. McAllis- ter and Simon A. Steel; for Legal Scholars Defending Race-Conscious Ad- missions by Vinay Harpalani; for Major American Business Enterprises by Michael R. Dreeben, Heather Welles, Melissa C. Cassel, and Ruthanne Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court I A Founded in , Harvard College has one of the most se- lective application processes in the country. Over , M. Deutsch; for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology et al. by Doug- las Hallward-Driemeier, Debra L. Zumwalt, and Dahlia Fetouh; for the Multicultural Media, Telecom and Internet Council, Inc., et al. by Emily Kanstroom Musgrave, Susan Finegan, and Tara M. Corvo; for the Na- tional Academy of Education by Yelena Konanova, Caitlin J. Halligan, and Amy I. Berman; for the National Asian Pacifc American Bar Associa- tion et al. by Daniel H. Bromberg, Albert Giang, Rachana Pathak, and Navdeep Singh; for the National Association of Basketball Coaches et al. by Jaime A. Santos; for the National Black Law Students Association by Deborah N. Archer and Vincent M. Southerland; for the National Educa- tion Association et al. by Alice O'Brien, Jason Walta, and Nicole G. Berner; for the National School Boards Association et al. by Pratik A. Shah, Aileen M. McGrath, Francisco M. Negrón, Jr., and Sonja H. Trainor; for the National Women's Law Center et al. by Richard C. Smith, Meredith Riley, Patrick Ashby, Menaka Nayar, Fatima Goss Graves, Emily Martin, and Sunu P. Chandy; for the President of the University of California et al. by Ginger D. Anders, Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., Charles F. Robinson, and Allison M. Day; for Professors of History and Law by Kathleen Hartnett, Adam S. Gershenson, and Kristen A. Johnson; for Southern Governors by Charles L. McCloud and Matthew J. Greer; for United States Senators et al. by Robert A. Long, Jr., and Eric Chung; for the University of Michigan by John P. Elwood, Stephen K. Wirth, and Timothy G. Lynch; for the Washington Bar Association et al. by Upnit K. Bhatti, Max Carter-Oberstone, and Daniel A. Rubens; for Youth Advo- cates et al. by Kelly M. Dermody and Miriam Rollin; for Charles S. Abbot et al. by Michael M. Purpura, Joe R. Reeder, Robert P. Charrow, and Elliot H. Scherker; for Deborah Cohen et al. by Mark A. Packman; for Robert C. “Bobby” Scott et al. by Brigida Benitez and Christopher A. Suarez; and for Diverse, California-Focused Bar Associations et al. by Mark R. Yohalem and Eva Paterson. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in No. – were fled for the Anti-Defamation League by Samuel P. Groner and Steven M. Free- man; for Professors of Economics by Derek T. Ho, Bradley E. Oppenhei- mer, and Minsuk Han; for Students of Harvard College et al. by Elisabeth S. Theodore, John A. Freedman, Nancy L. Perkins, Sally L. Pei, Damon Hewitt, Jon Greenbaum, David G. Hinojosa, and Mses. Shah and Andri- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court people applied to the school last year; fewer than , were admitted. Gaining admission to Harvard is thus no easy feat. It can depend on having excellent grades, glowing rec- ommendation letters, or overcoming signifcant adversity. ola; for Harvard Student Organizations et al. by Jin Hee Lee, Mi- chaele N. Turnage Young, Jennifer A. Holmes, Janai S. Nelson, Samuel Spital, Rachel M. Kleinman, and Cara McClellan; and for , Social Scientists et al. by Daniel Woofter, Erica Oleszczuk Evans, and Liliana M. Garces. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in No. – were fled for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., et al. by Ms. Nelson, Mr. Spital, Alexsis M. Johnson, Mr. Lee, and Amber M. Koonce; and for , American Social Science Researchers et al. by Caroline E. Reynolds, David A. Reiser, and William J. Murphy. Briefs of amici curiae were fled in both cases for the American Associa- tion for Access, Equity and Diversity et al. by Marilynn L. Schuyler; for the Asian American Coalition for Education et al. by Gordon M. Fauth, Jr.; for the Claremont Institute's Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence by John C. Eastman and Anthony T. Caso; for the College Board et al. by Michael A. Brown, Timothy P. Harkness, David Y. Livshiz, and Scott A. Eisman; for Empirical Scholars by Susan Baker Manning; for Former Federal Offcials of the U. S. Dept. of Education's Offce for Civil Rights by William E. Trachman; for Freedom X by Mitchell Keiter and William J. Becker, Jr.; for Human Rights Advocates et al. by Constance de la Vega and Neil A. F. Popovic´ ; for Individual Scientists by Ashley Lee Hogewood III, David R. Fine, and Andrew C. Glass; for Judicial Watch, Inc., et al. by H. Christopher Coates; for the Legal Insurrection Foundation by Wil- liam A. Jacobson; for the Liberty Justice Center et al. by Daniel R. Suhr; for the LONANG Institute by Kerry Lee Morgan and Randall A. Pen- tiuk; for Parents Defending Education by Christopher E. Mills; for Speech First by Bradley A. Benbrook and Stephen M. Duvernay; for Veterans for Fairness by Gene C. Schaerr, Erik S. Jaffe, H. Christopher Bartolomucci, Hannah C. Smith, Kathryn E. Tarbert, and Claude M. McQuarrie III; for David E. Bernstein by Cory R. Liu; for David Boyle by Mr. Boyle, pro se; for Gail Heriot et al. by Peter N. Kirsanow and Ms. Heriot, both pro se; for Ann M. Killenbeck et al. by Stuart Taylor, Jr.; for Former Attorney General Edwin Meese III by Edward M. Wenger; and for Richard Sander by Mr. Taylor. Briefs of amici curiae were fled in No. – for the Jewish Coalition for Religious Liberty by Kristen K. Waggoner, John J. Bursch, David A. Cortman, and Erin Morrow Hawley; and for the South- eastern Legal Foundation by Kimberly S. Hermann. STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court See F. d , – (CA ). It can also depend on your race. The admissions process at Harvard works as follows. Every application is initially screened by a “frst reader,” who assigns scores in six categories: academic, extracurricu- lar, athletic, school support, personal, and overall. Ibid. A rating of “” is the best; a rating of “” the worst. Ibid. In the academic category, for example, a “” signifes “near- perfect standardized test scores and grades”; in the extra- curricular category, it indicates “truly unusual achievement”; and in the personal category, it denotes “outstanding” attrib- utes like maturity, integrity, leadership, kindness, and cour- age. Id., at –. A score of “” on the overall rating— a composite of the fve other ratings—“signifes an excep- tional candidate with >% chance of admission.” Id., at (internal quotation marks omitted). In assigning the over- all rating, the frst readers “can and do take an applicant's race into account.” Ibid. Once the frst read process is complete, Harvard convenes admissions subcommittees. Ibid. Each subcommittee meets for three to fve days and evaluates all applicants from a particular geographic area. Ibid. The subcommittees are responsible for making recommendations to the full ad- missions committee. Id., at –. The subcommittees can and do take an applicant's race into account when making their recommendations. Id., at . The next step of the Harvard process is the full committee meeting. The committee has members, and its discussion centers around the applicants who have been recommended by the regional subcommittees. Ibid. At the beginning of the meeting, the committee discusses the relative breakdown of applicants by race. The “goal,” according to Harvard's director of admissions, “is to make sure that [Harvard does] not hav[e] a dramatic drop-off” in minority admissions from the prior class. App. in No. –, pp. , –. Each applicant considered by the full committee is discussed Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court one by one, and every member of the committee must vote on admission. F. d, at . Only when an applicant secures a majority of the full committee's votes is he or she tentatively accepted for admission. Ibid. At the end of the full committee meeting, the racial composition of the pool of tentatively admitted students is disclosed to the committee. Ibid.; App. in No. –, at . The fnal stage of Harvard's process is called the “lop,” during which the list of tentatively admitted students is win- nowed further to arrive at the fnal class. Any applicants that Harvard considers cutting at this stage are placed on a “lop list,” which contains only four pieces of information: leg- acy status, recruited athlete status, fnancial aid eligibility, and race. F. d, at . The full committee decides as a group which students to lop. F. Supp. d , (Mass. ). In doing so, the committee can and does take race into account. Ibid. Once the lop process is complete, Harvard's admitted class is set. Ibid. In the Harvard ad- missions process, “race is a determinative tip for” a signif- cant percentage “of all admitted African American and His- panic applicants.” Id., at . B Founded just nine months after the Constitution was rati- fed, the University of North Carolina (UNC) prides itself on being the “nation's frst public university.” F. Supp. d , (MDNC ). Like Harvard, UNC's “admissions process is highly selective”: In a typical year, the school “re- ceives approximately , applications for its freshman class of ,.” Id., at . Every application the University receives is initially re- viewed by one of approximately admissions offce readers, each of whom reviews roughly fve applications per hour. Id., at , . Readers are required to consider “[r]ace and ethnicity . . . as one factor” in their review. Id., at (internal quotation marks omitted). Other factors include Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court academic performance and rigor, standardized testing re- sults, extracurricular involvement, essay quality, personal factors, and student background. Id., at . Readers are responsible for providing numerical ratings for the aca- demic, extracurricular, personal, and essay categories. Ibid. During the years at issue in this litigation, underrepre- sented minority students were “more likely to score [highly] on their personal ratings than their white and Asian American peers,” but were more likely to be “rated lower by UNC readers on their academic program, academic perform- ance, . . . extracurricular activities,” and essays. Id., at –. After assessing an applicant's materials along these lines, the reader “formulates an opinion about whether the student should be offered admission” and then “writes a comment defending his or her recommended decision.” Id., at (in- ternal quotation marks omitted). In making that decision, readers may offer students a “plus” based on their race, which “may be signifcant in an individual case.” Id., at (internal quotation marks omitted). The admissions deci- sions made by the frst readers are, in most cases, “provision- ally fnal.” Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. Uni- versity of N. C. at Chapel Hill, No. :–cv– (MDNC, Nov. , ), ECF Doc. , p. , ¶. Following the frst read process, “applications then go to a process called `school group review' . . . where a committee composed of experienced staff members reviews every [ini- tial] decision.” F. Supp. d, at . The review com- mittee receives a report on each student which contains, among other things, their “class rank, GPA, and test scores; the ratings assigned to them by their initial readers; and their status as residents, legacies, or special recruits.” Ibid. (footnote omitted). The review committee either approves or rejects each admission recommendation made by the frst reader, after which the admissions decisions are fnalized. Ibid. In making those decisions, the review committee may Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court also consider the applicant's race. Id., at ; App. in No. –, p. . C Petitioner, Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA), is a non- proft organization founded in whose purpose is “to de- fend human and civil rights secured by law, including the right of individuals to equal protection under the law.” F. d, at (internal quotation marks omitted). In Novem- ber , SFFA fled separate lawsuits against Harvard Col- lege and the University of North Carolina, arguing that their Justice Jackson attempts to minimize the role that race plays in UNC's admissions process by noting that, from –, the school ac- cepted a lower “percentage of the most academically excellent in-state Black candidates”—that is, out of such applicants (.%)—than it did similarly situated Asian applicants—that is, out of such ap- plicants (.%). Post, at (dissenting opinion); see also App. in No. –, pp. –. It is not clear how the rejection of just two black applicants over fve years could be “indicative of a genuinely holistic [ad- missions] process,” as Justice Jackson contends. Post, at . And in- deed it cannot be, as the overall acceptance rates of academically excellent applicants to UNC illustrates full well. According to SFFA's expert, over % of all black applicants in the top academic decile were admitted to UNC, while under % of white and Asian applicants in that decile were admitted. App. in No. –, at –. In the second highest academic decile, the disparity is even starker: % of black applicants were admitted, while % of white applicants and % of Asian applicants were admitted. Ibid. And in the third highest decile, % of black applicants were admitted, compared to % of white applicants and % of Asian applicants. Ibid. The dissent does not dispute the accuracy of these fgures. See post, at –, n. (opinion of Jackson, J). And its con- tention that white and Asian students “receive a diversity plus” in UNC's race-based admissions system blinks reality. Post, at . The same is true at Harvard. See Brief for Petitioner (“[A]n African American [student] in [the fourth lowest academic] decile has a higher chance of admission (.%) than an Asian American in the top decile (.%).” (emphasis added)); see also App. in No. –, p. (black applicants in the top four academic deciles are between four and ten times more likely to be admitted to Harvard than Asian applicants in those deciles). STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court race-based admissions programs violated, respectively, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of , Stat. , U. S. C. § d et seq., and the Equal Protection Clause of the Four- teenth Amendment. See F. Supp. d, at –; F. Supp. d, at –. The District Courts in both cases held bench trials to evaluate SFFA's claims. See F. d, at ; F. Supp. d, at . Trial in the Harvard case lasted days and included testimony from witnesses, after which the Court concluded that Harvard's admissions program comported with our precedents on the use of race in college admissions. See F. Supp. d, at , . The First Circuit affrmed that determination. See F. d, at . Similarly, in the UNC case, the District Court con- cluded after an eight-day trial that UNC's admissions pro- gram was permissible under the Equal Protection Clause. F. Supp. d, at , . We granted certiorari in the Harvard case and certiorari before judgment in the UNC case. U. S. ––– (). II Before turning to the merits, we must assure ourselves of our jurisdiction. See Summers v. Earth Island Institute, U. S. , (). UNC argues that SFFA lacks standing to bring its claims because it is not a “genuine” membership organization. Brief for University Respond- ents in No. –, pp. –. Every court to have consid- Title VI provides that “[n]o person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefts of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal fnancial assistance.” U. S. C. § d. “We have explained that discrimination that violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment committed by an institu- tion that accepts federal funds also constitutes a violation of Title VI.” Gratz v. Bollinger, U. S. , , n. (). Although Justice Gorsuch questions that proposition, no party asks us to reconsider it. We accordingly evaluate Harvard's admissions program under the stand- ards of the Equal Protection Clause itself. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court ered this argument has rejected it, and so do we. See Stu- dents for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. University of Tex. at Austin, F. th , –, and n. (CA ) (col- lecting cases). Article III of the Constitution limits “[t]he judicial power of the United States” to “cases” or “controversies,” ensuring that federal courts act only “as a necessity in the determina- tion of real, earnest and vital” disputes. Muskrat v. United States, U. S. , , () (internal quotation marks omitted). “To state a case or controversy under Arti- cle III, a plaintiff must establish standing.” Arizona Chris- tian School Tuition Organization v. Winn, U. S. , (). That, in turn, requires a plaintiff to demonstrate that it has “() suffered an injury in fact, () that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and () that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision.” Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, U. S. , (). In cases like these, where the plaintiff is an organization, the standing requirements of Article III can be satisfed in two ways. Either the organization can claim that it suffered an injury in its own right or, alternatively, it can assert “standing solely as the representative of its members.” Warth v. Seldin, U. S. , (). The latter ap- proach is known as representational or organizational stand- ing. Ibid.; Summers, U. S., at –. To invoke it, an organization must demonstrate that “(a) its members would otherwise have standing to sue in their own right; (b) the interests it seeks to protect are germane to the organiza- tion's purpose; and (c) neither the claim asserted nor the re- lief requested requires the participation of individual mem- bers in the lawsuit.” Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm'n, U. S. , (). Respondents do not contest that SFFA satisfes the three- part test for organizational standing articulated in Hunt, and like the courts below, we fnd no basis in the record to con- clude otherwise. See F. d, at –; F. Supp. d, Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court at –; No. :–cv– (MDNC, Sept. , ), App. D to Pet. for Cert. in No. –, pp. – ( DC Opin- ion). Respondents instead argue that SFFA was not a “gen- uine `membership organization' ” when it fled suit, and thus that it could not invoke the doctrine of organizational stand- ing in the frst place. Brief for University Respondents in No. –, at . According to respondents, our decision in Hunt established that groups qualify as genuine membership organizations only if they are controlled and funded by their members. And because SFFA's members did neither at the time this litigation commenced, respondents' argument goes, SFFA could not represent its members for purposes of Arti- cle III standing. Brief for University Respondents in No. –, at (citing Hunt, U. S., at ). Hunt involved the Washington State Apple Advertising Commission, a state agency whose purpose was to protect the local apple industry. The Commission brought suit chal- lenging a North Carolina statute that imposed a labeling re- quirement on containers of apples sold in that State. The Commission argued that it had standing to challenge the re- quirement on behalf of Washington's apple industry. See id., at –. We recognized, however, that as a state agency, “the Commission [wa]s not a traditional voluntary membership organization . . . , for it ha[d] no members at all.” Id., at . As a result, we could not easily apply the three-part test for organizational standing, which asks whether an organization's members have standing. We nev- ertheless concluded that the Commission had standing be- cause the apple growers and dealers it represented were ef- fectively members of the Commission. Id., at . The growers and dealers “alone elect[ed] the members of the Commission,” “alone . . . serve[d] on the Commission,” and “alone fnance[d] its activities”—they possessed, in other words, “all of the indicia of membership.” Ibid. The Com- mission was therefore a genuine membership organization in substance, if not in form. And it was “clearly” entitled to Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court rely on the doctrine of organizational standing under the three-part test recounted above. Id., at . The indicia of membership analysis employed in Hunt has no applicability in these cases. Here, SFFA is indisputably a voluntary membership organization with identifable mem- bers—it is not, as in Hunt, a state agency that concededly has no members. See DC Opinion –. As the First Circuit in the Harvard litigation observed, at the time SFFA fled suit, it was “a validly incorporated (c)() non- proft with forty-seven members who joined voluntarily to support its mission.” F. d, at . Meanwhile in the UNC litigation, SFFA represented four members in particu- lar—high school graduates who were denied admission to UNC. See DC Opinion . Those members fled dec- larations with the District Court stating “that they have vol- untarily joined SFFA; they support its mission; they receive updates about the status of the case from SFFA's President; and they have had the opportunity to have input and direc- tion on SFFA's case.” Id., at – (internal quotation marks omitted). Where, as here, an organization has identi- fed members and represents them in good faith, our cases do not require further scrutiny into how the organization operates. Because SFFA complies with the standing re- quirements demanded of organizational plaintiffs in Hunt, its obligations under Article III are satisfed. III A In the wake of the Civil War, Congress proposed and the States ratifed the Fourteenth Amendment, providing that no State shall “deny to any person . . . the equal protection of the laws.” Amdt. , § . To its proponents, the Equal Protection Clause represented a “foundation[al] principle”— “the absolute equality of all citizens of the United States politically and civilly before their own laws.” Cong. Globe, th Cong., st Sess., () (statement of Rep. Bingham) STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court (Cong. Globe). The Constitution, they were determined, “should not permit any distinctions of law based on race or color,” Supp. Brief for United States on Reargument in Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. , No. etc., p. (detailing the history of the adoption of the Equal Protection Clause), because any “law which operates upon one man [should] operate equally upon all,” Cong. Globe (state- ment of Rep. Stevens). As soon-to-be President James Gar- feld observed, the Fourteenth Amendment would hold “over every American citizen, without regard to color, the protect- ing shield of law.” Id., at . And in doing so, said Sena- tor Jacob Howard of Michigan, the Amendment would give “to the humblest, the poorest, the most despised of the race the same rights and the same protection before the law as it gives to the most powerful, the most wealthy, or the most haughty.” Id., at . For “[w]ithout this principle of equal justice,” Howard continued, “there is no republican government and none that is really worth maintaining.” Ibid. At frst, this Court embraced the transcendent aims of the Equal Protection Clause. “What is this,” we said of the Clause in , “but declaring that the law in the States shall be the same for the black as for the white; that all persons, whether colored or white, shall stand equal before the laws of the States?” Strauder v. West Virginia, U. S. , – (). “[T]he broad and benign provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment” apply “to all persons,” we unani- mously declared six years later; it is “hostility to . . . race and nationality” “which in the eye of the law is not justifed.” Yick Wo v. Hopkins, U. S. , –, – (); see also id., at (applying the Clause to “aliens and sub- jects of the Emperor of China”); Truax v. Raich, U. S. , () (“a native of Austria”); semble Strauder, U. S., at – (“Celtic Irishmen”) (dictum). Despite our early recognition of the broad sweep of the Equal Protection Clause, this Court—alongside the coun- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court try—quickly failed to live up to the Clause's core commit- ments. For almost a century after the Civil War, state- mandated segregation was in many parts of the Nation a regrettable norm. This Court played its own role in that ignoble history, allowing in Plessy v. Ferguson the separate but equal regime that would come to deface much of America. U. S. (). The aspirations of the fram- ers of the Equal Protection Clause, “[v]irtually strangled in [their] infancy,” would remain for too long only that—aspira- tions. J. Tussman & J. tenBroek, The Equal Protection of the Laws, Cal. L. Rev. , (). After Plessy, “American courts . . . labored with the doc- trine [of separate but equal] for over half a century.” Brown v. Board of Education, U. S. , (). Some cases in this period attempted to curtail the perni- ciousness of the doctrine by emphasizing that it required States to provide black students educational opportunities equal to—even if formally separate from—those enjoyed by white students. See, e. g., Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Can- ada, U. S. , – () (“The admissibility of laws separating the races in the enjoyment of privileges afforded by the State rests wholly upon the equality of the privileges which the laws give to the separated groups . . . .”). But the inherent folly of that approach—of trying to derive equal- ity from inequality—soon became apparent. As the Court subsequently recognized, even racial distinctions that were ar- gued to have no palpable effect worked to subordinate the af- ficted students. See, e. g., McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Re- gents for Higher Ed., U. S. , – () (“It is said that the separations imposed by the State in this case are in form merely nominal. . . . But they signify that the State . . . sets [petitioner] apart from the other students.”). By , the inevitable truth of the Fourteenth Amendment had thus begun to reemerge: Separate cannot be equal. The culmination of this approach came fnally in Brown v. Board of Education. In that seminal decision, we over- Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court turned Plessy for good and set frmly on the path of invali- dating all de jure racial discrimination by the States and Federal Government. U. S., at –. Brown con- cerned the permissibility of racial segregation in public schools. The school district maintained that such segrega- tion was lawful because the schools provided to black stu- dents and white students were of roughly the same quality. But we held such segregation impermissible “even though the physical facilities and other `tangible' factors may be equal.” Id., at (emphasis added). The mere act of sepa- rating “children . . . because of their race,” we explained, itself “generate[d] a feeling of inferiority.” Id., at . The conclusion reached by the Brown Court was thus un- mistakably clear: the right to a public education “must be made available to all on equal terms.” Id., at . As the plaintiffs had argued, “no State has any authority under the equal-protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to use race as a factor in affording educational opportunities among its citizens.” Tr. of Oral Arg. in Brown I, O. T. , No. , p. (Robert L. Carter, Dec. , ); see also Supp. Brief for Appellants on Reargument in Nos. , , and , and for Respondents in No. , in Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. , p. (“That the Constitution is color blind is our dedicated belief.”); post, at , n. (Thomas, J., concurring). The Court reiterated that rule just one year later, holding that “full compliance” with Brown required schools to admit students “on a racially nondiscriminatory basis.” Brown v. Board of Education, U. S. , – (). The time for making distinctions based on race had passed. Brown, the Court observed, “declar[ed] the fundamental principle that racial discrimination in public education is un- constitutional.” Id., at . So too in other areas of life. Immediately after Brown, we began routinely affrming lower court decisions that in- validated all manner of race-based state action. In Gayle v. Browder, for example, we summarily affrmed a decision Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court invalidating state and local laws that required segregation in busing. U. S. () (per curiam). As the lower court explained, “[t]he equal protection clause requires equality of treatment before the law for all persons without regard to race or color.” Browder v. Gayle, F. Supp. , (MD Ala. ). And in Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. Dawson, we summarily affrmed a decision striking down racial segregation at public beaches and bath- houses maintained by the State of Maryland and the city of Baltimore. U. S. () (per curiam). “[I]t is obvi- ous that racial segregation in recreational activities can no longer be sustained,” the lower court observed. Dawson v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, F. d , (CA ) (per curiam). “[T]he ideal of equality before the law which characterizes our institutions” demanded as much. Ibid. In the decades that followed, this Court continued to vindi- cate the Constitution's pledge of racial equality. Laws di- viding parks and golf courses; neighborhoods and businesses; buses and trains; schools and juries were undone, all by a transformative promise “stemming from our American ideal of fairness”: “ `the Constitution . . . forbids . . . discrimination by the General Government, or by the States, against any citizen because of his race.' ” Bolling v. Sharpe, U. S. , () (quoting Gibson v. Mississippi, U. S. , () (Harlan, J., for the Court)). As we recounted in striking down the Commonwealth of Virginia's ban on inter- racial marriage years after Brown, the Fourteenth Amendment “proscri[bes] . . . all invidious racial discrimina- tions.” Loving v. Virginia, U. S. , (). Our cases had thus “consistently denied the constitutionality of meas- ures which restrict the rights of citizens on account of race.” Id., at –; see also Yick Wo, U. S., at – (commer- cial property); Shelley v. Kraemer, U. S. () (housing covenants); Hernandez v. Texas, U. S. () (composi- tion of juries); Dawson, U. S., at (beaches and bath- Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court houses); Holmes v. Atlanta, U. S. () (per curiam) (golf courses); Browder, U. S., at (busing); New Or- leans City Park Improvement Assn. v. Detiege, U. S. () (per curiam) (public parks); Bailey v. Patterson, U. S. () (per curiam) (transportation facilities); Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Bd. of Ed., U. S. () (education); Batson v. Kentucky, U. S. () (peremptory jury strikes). These decisions refect the “core purpose” of the Equal Protection Clause: “do[ing] away with all governmentally imposed discrimination based on race.” Palmore v. Sidoti, U. S. , () (footnote omitted). We have recog- nized that repeatedly. “The clear and central purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to eliminate all offcial state sources of invidious racial discrimination in the States.” Loving, U. S., at ; see also Washington v. Davis, U. S. , () (“The central purpose of the Equal Pro- tection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is the preven- tion of offcial conduct discriminating on the basis of race.”); McLaughlin v. Florida, U. S. , () (“[T]he his- torical fact [is] that the central purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to eliminate racial discrimination.”). Eliminating racial discrimination means eliminating all of it. And the Equal Protection Clause, we have accordingly held, applies “without regard to any differences of race, of color, or of nationality”—it is “universal in [its] application.” Yick Wo, U. S., at . For “[t]he guarantee of equal protection cannot mean one thing when applied to one indi- vidual and something else when applied to a person of an- other color.” Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, U. S. , – () (opinion of Powell, J.). “If both are not ac- corded the same protection, then it is not equal.” Id., at . Any exception to the Constitution's demand for equal protection must survive a daunting two-step examination known in our cases as “strict scrutiny.” Adarand Construc- tors, Inc. v. Peña, U. S. , (). Under that standard we ask, frst, whether the racial classifcation Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court is used to “further compelling governmental interests.” Grutter v. Bollinger, U. S. , (). Second, if so, we ask whether the government's use of race is “nar- rowly tailored”—meaning “necessary”—to achieve that in- terest. Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin, U. S. , – () (Fisher I) (internal quotation marks omitted). Outside the circumstances of these cases, our precedents have identifed only two compelling interests that permit re- sort to race-based government action. One is remediating specifc, identifed instances of past discrimination that vio- lated the Constitution or a statute. See, e. g., Parents In- volved in Community Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. , U. S. , (); Shaw v. Hunt, U. S. , – (); post, at –, – (opinion of Thomas, J.). The second is avoiding imminent and serious risks to human safety in prisons, such as a race riot. See Johnson v. Cali- fornia, U. S. , – (). The frst time we determined that a governmental racial classifcation satisfed “the most rigid scrutiny” was years before Brown v. Board of Education, U. S. (), in the infamous case Korematsu v. United States, U. S. , (). There, the Court upheld the internment of “all persons of Japanese ancestry in prescribed West Coast . . . areas” during World War II because “the military urgency of the situation de- manded” it. Id., at , . We have since overruled Korematsu, rec- ognizing that it was “gravely wrong the day it was decided.” Trump v. Hawaii, U. S. –––, ––– (). The Court's decision in Korematsu nevertheless “demonstrates vividly that even the most rigid scrutiny can sometimes fail to detect an illegitimate racial classifcation” and that “[a]ny retreat from the most searching judicial inquiry can only increase the risk of another such error occurring in the future.” Adarand Con- structors, Inc. v. Peña, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). The principal dissent, for its part, claims that the Court has also permit- ted “the use of race when that use burdens minority populations.” Post, at – (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). In support of that claim, the dis- sent cites two cases that have nothing to do with the Equal Protection Clause. See ibid. (citing United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, U. S. () (Fourth Amendment case), and United States v. Martinez-Fuerte, U. S. () (another Fourth Amendment case)). Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court Our acceptance of race-based state action has been rare for a reason. “Distinctions between citizens solely because of their ancestry are by their very nature odious to a free people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality.” Rice v. Cayetano, U. S. , () (quot- ing Hirabayashi v. United States, U. S. , ()). That principle cannot be overridden except in the most ex- traordinary case. B These cases involve whether a university may make admis- sions decisions that turn on an applicant's race. Our Court frst considered that issue in Regents of University of Cali- fornia v. Bakke, which involved a set-aside admissions pro- gram used by the University of California, Davis, medical school. U. S., at –. Each year, the school held of its seats open for members of certain minority groups, who were reviewed on a special admissions track separate from those in the main admissions pool. Id., at –. The plaintiff, Allan Bakke, was denied admission two years in a row, despite the admission of minority applicants with lower grade point averages and MCAT scores. Id., at – . Bakke subsequently sued the school, arguing that its set-aside program violated the Equal Protection Clause. In a deeply splintered decision that produced six different opinions—none of which commanded a majority of the Court—we ultimately ruled in part in favor of the school and in part in favor of Bakke. Justice Powell announced the Court's judgment, and his opinion—though written for himself alone—would eventually come to “serv[e] as the touchstone for constitutional analysis of race-conscious ad- missions policies.” Grutter, U. S., at . Justice Powell began by fnding three of the school's four justifcations for its policy not suffciently compelling. The school's frst justifcation of “reducing the historic defcit of traditionally disfavored minorities in medical schools,” he wrote, was akin to “[p]referring members of any one group Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court for no reason other than race or ethnic origin.” Bakke, U. S., at – (internal quotation marks omitted). Yet that was “discrimination for its own sake,” which “the Con- stitution forbids.” Id., at (citing, inter alia, Loving, U. S., at ). Justice Powell next observed that the goal of “remedying . . . the effects of `societal discrimination' ” was also insuffcient because it was “an amorphous concept of in- jury that may be ageless in its reach into the past.” Bakke, U. S., at . Finally, Justice Powell found there was “virtually no evidence in the record indicating that [the school's] special admissions program” would, as the school had argued, increase the number of doctors working in un- derserved areas. Id., at . Justice Powell then turned to the school's last interest as- serted to be compelling—obtaining the educational benefts that fow from a racially diverse student body. That inter- est, in his view, was “a constitutionally permissible goal for an institution of higher education.” Id., at –. And that was so, he opined, because a university was entitled as a matter of academic freedom “to make its own judgments as to . . . the selection of its student body.” Id., at . But a university's freedom was not unlimited. “Racial and ethnic distinctions of any sort are inherently suspect,” Justice Powell explained, and antipathy toward them was deeply “rooted in our Nation's constitutional and demo- graphic history.” Id., at . A university could not em- ploy a quota system, for example, reserving “a specifed num- ber of seats in each class for individuals from the preferred ethnic groups.” Id., at . Nor could it impose a “multi- track program with a prescribed number of seats set aside for each identifable category of applicants.” Ibid. And neither still could it use race to foreclose an individual “from all consideration . . . simply because he was not the right color.” Id., at . The role of race had to be cabined. It could operate only as “a `plus' in a particular applicant's fle.” Id., at . And Page Proof Pending Publication STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE Opinion of the Court even then, race was to be weighed in a manner “fexible enough to consider all pertinent elements of diversity in light of the particular qualifcations of each applicant.” Ibid. Justice Powell derived this approach from what he called the “illuminating example” of the admissions system then used by Harvard College. Id., at . Under that system, as de- scribed by Harvard in a brief it had fled with the Court, “the race of an applicant may tip the balance in his favor just as geographic origin or a life [experience] may tip the bal- ance in other candidates' cases.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). Harvard continued: “A farm boy from Idaho can bring something to Harvard College that a Bosto- nian cannot offer. Similarly, a black student can usually bring something that a white person cannot offer.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). The result, Harvard proclaimed, was that “race has been”—and should be—“a factor in some admission decisions.” Ibid. (internal quota- tion marks omitted). No other Member of the Court joined Justice Powell's opinion. Four Justices instead would have held that the government may use race for the purpose of “remedying the effects of past societal discrimination.” Id., at (joint opinion of Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ., con- curring in judgment in part and dissenting in part). Four other Justices, meanwhile, would have struck down the Davis program as violative of Title VI. In their view, it “seem[ed] clear that the proponents of Title VI assumed that the Constitution itself required a colorblind standard on the part of government.” Id., at (Stevens, J., joined by Burger, C. J., and Stewart and Rehnquist, JJ.,