Matthew S. Hellman argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief were Lauren J. Hartz, Debbie L. Ber- man, Gianni P. Servodidio, and Samuel R. Fulkerson.* Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court. This case requires us to decide the foreign reach of U. S. C. § ()(a) and § (a)(), two provisions of the Lanham Act that prohibit trademark infringement. Apply- ing the presumption against extraterritoriality, we hold that these provisions are not extraterritorial and that they ex- tend only to claims where the claimed infringing use in com- merce is domestic. I This case concerns a trademark dispute between a United States company (Hetronic International, Inc.) and six foreign parties (fve companies and one individual (collectively Abi- tron)). Hetronic manufactures radio remote controls for construction equipment. It sells and services these prod- ucts, which employ “a distinctive black-and-yellow color *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the International Trademark Association by Lawrence K. Nodine; for Three Intellectual Property Law Professors by Timothy R. Holbrook, pro se; for Louis Pah- low by Paul F. Enzinna; and for Guido Westkamp by William J. Cooper. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the American Bar Association by Deborah Enix-Ross, Megan K. Bannigan, Carl Micar- elli, Dale Cendali, Travis R. Wimberly, and Giulio E. Yaquinto; and for Stussy, Inc., by John R. Sommer. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the American Intellectual Property Law Association by Richard S. Stockton; for the European Commission on Behalf of the European Union by Neil A. F. Popovic´ and Valerie E. Alter; for the Federal Circuit Bar Association by Michael Franzinger; for German Law Professors by John Lee Shepherd, Jr., and John Gary May- nard III; for the Intellectual Property Owners Association by Theodore H. Davis, Jr., and Susan A. Russell; and for William S. Dodge by Michael R. Dreeben. The foreign companies are Abitron Germany GmbH, Abitron Austria GmbH, Hetronic Germany GmbH, Hydronic-Steuersysteme GmbH, and ABI Holding GmbH. Page Proof Pending Publication ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH v. HETRONIC INT'L, INC. Opinion of the Court scheme to distinguish them from those of its competitors,” in more than countries. F. th , (CA ) (case below). Abitron originally operated as a licensed distributor for Hetronic, but it later concluded that it held the rights to much of Hetronic's intellectual property, including the marks on the products at issue in this suit. After reverse engi- neering Hetronic's products, Abitron began to sell Hetronic- branded products that incorporated parts sourced from third parties. Abitron mostly sold its products in Europe, but it also made some direct sales into the United States. Hetronic sued Abitron in the Western District of Okla- homa for, as relevant here, trademark violations under two related provisions of the Lanham Act. First, it invoked § ()(a), which prohibits the unauthorized “use in com- merce [of] any reproduction . . . of a registered mark in con- nection with the sale, offering for sale, distribution, or adver- tising of any goods or services” when “such use is likely to cause confusion.” Hetronic also invoked § (a)(), which prohibits the “us[e] in commerce” of a protected mark, whether registered or not, that “is likely to cause confusion.” Hetronic sought damages under these provisions for Abi- tron's infringing acts worldwide. Throughout the proceedings below, Abitron argued that Hetronic sought an impermissible extraterritorial applica- tion of the Lanham Act. But the District Court rejected this argument, and a jury later awarded Hetronic approxi- mately $ million in damages related to Abitron's global employment of Hetronic's marks. This amount thus in- cluded damages from Abitron's direct sales to consumers in the United States, its foreign sales of products for which the foreign buyers designated the United States as the ultimate destination, and its foreign sales of products that did not end up in the United States. The District Court later entered a permanent injunction preventing Abitron from using the marks anywhere in the world. On appeal, the Tenth Circuit Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court narrowed the injunction to cover only certain countries but otherwise affrmed the judgment. It concluded that the Lanham Act extended to “all of [Abitron's] foreign infringing conduct” because the “impacts within the United States [were] of a suffcient character and magnitude as would give the United States a reasonably strong interest in the litiga- tion.” F. th, at . We granted certiorari to resolve a Circuit split over the extraterritorial reach of the Lanham Act. U. S. ––– (). II A “It is a `longstanding principle of American law “that leg- islation of Congress, unless a contrary intent appears, is meant to apply only within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.” ' ” Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd., U. S. , (). We have repeatedly ex- plained that this principle, which we call the presumption against extraterritoriality, refers to a “presumption against application to conduct in the territory of another sovereign.” Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., U. S. , () (citing Morrison, U. S., at ). In other words, exclusively “ `[f]oreign conduct is generally the domain of foreign law.' ” Microsoft Corp. v. AT&T Corp., U. S. , () (alteration omitted). The presumption “serves to avoid the international discord that can result when U. S. law is applied to conduct in foreign countries” and refects the “ `commonsense notion that Congress generally legislates with domestic concerns in mind.' ” RJR Nabisco, Inc. v. European Community, U. S. , – (). Applying the presumption against extraterritoriality in- volves “a two-step framework.” Id., at . At step one, we determine whether a provision is extraterritorial, and that determination turns on whether “Congress has affrma- tively and unmistakably instructed that” the provision at Page Proof Pending Publication ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH v. HETRONIC INT'L, INC. Opinion of the Court issue should “apply to foreign conduct.” Id., at , ; ac- cord, Kiobel, U. S., at (asking whether Congress “in- tends federal law to apply to conduct occurring abroad”); Nestlé USA, Inc. v. Doe, U. S. –––, ––– (). If Con- gress has provided an unmistakable instruction that the pro- vision is extraterritorial, then claims alleging exclusively foreign conduct may proceed, subject to “the limits Congress has (or has not) imposed on the statute's foreign application.” RJR Nabisco, U. S., at –. If a provision is not extraterritorial, we move to step two, which resolves whether the suit seeks a (permissible) domes- tic or (impermissible) foreign application of the provision. To make that determination, courts must start by identifying the “ ` “focus” of congressional concern' ” underlying the pro- vision at issue. Id., at . “The focus of a statute is `the object of its solicitude,' which can include the conduct it `seeks to “regulate,” ' as well as the parties and interests it `seeks to “protect” ' or vindicate.” WesternGeco LLC v. ION Geophysical Corp., U. S. –––, ––– () (alterations omitted). Step two does not end with identifying statutory focus. We have repeatedly and explicitly held that courts must “identif[y] `the statute's “focus” ' and as[k] whether the con- duct relevant to that focus occurred in United States terri- tory.” Id., at ––– (emphasis added); accord, e. g., RJR Na- bisco, U. S., at . Thus, to prove that a claim involves a domestic application of a statute, “plaintiffs must establish that `the conduct relevant to the statute's focus occurred in the United States.' ” Nestlé, U. S., at ––– – ––– (empha- sis added); see, e. g., WesternGeco, U. S., at ––– – ––– (holding that a claim was a domestic application of the Patent Act because the infringing acts—the conduct relevant to the focus of the provisions at issue—were committed in the United States); Morrison, U. S., at –, – As we have noted, courts may take these steps in any order. See, e. g., Yegiazaryan v. Smagin, U. S. , , n. (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court (concluding that a claim was a foreign application of the Se- curities and Exchange Act because the “purchase-and-sale transactions” at issue occurred outside of the United States). Step two is designed to apply the presumption against ex- traterritoriality to claims that involve both domestic and for- eign activity, separating the activity that matters from the activity that does not. After all, we have long recognized that the presumption would be meaningless if any domestic conduct could defeat it. See Morrison, U. S., at . Thus, “ `[i]f the conduct relevant to the statute's focus oc- curred in the United States, then the case involves a permis- sible domestic application' of the statute, `even if other con- duct occurred abroad.' ” WesternGeco, U. S., at ––– (quoting RJR Nabisco, U. S., at ). And “if the rele- vant conduct occurred in another country, `then the case in- volves an impermissible extraterritorial application regard- less of any other conduct that occurred in U. S. territory.' ” WesternGeco, U. S., at ––– (quoting RJR Nabisco, U. S., at ). Of course, if all the conduct “ `regarding [the] violations `took place outside the United States,' ” then courts do “not need to determine . . . the statute's `focus' ” at all. Id., at . In that circumstance, there would be no domestic conduct that could be relevant to any focus, so the focus test has no fltering role to play. See, e. g., Nestlé, U. S., at ––– ; Kiobel, U. S., at . B With this well-established framework in mind, the frst question is whether the relevant provisions of the Lanham Act, see §§ ()(a), (a)(), provide “a clear, affrmative indication” that they apply extraterritorially, RJR Nabisco, U. S., at . They do not. Our cases sometimes refer to whether the “statute” applies extraterri- torially, but the two-step analysis applies at the level of the particular provision implicated. See, e. g., RJR Nabisco, U. S., at ; Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd., U. S. , – (). Page Proof Pending Publication ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH v. HETRONIC INT'L, INC. Opinion of the Court It is a “rare statute that clearly evidences extraterritorial effect despite lacking an express statement of extraterritori- ality.” Id., at . Our decision in RJR Nabisco illustrates the clarity required at step one of our framework. There, we held that the Racketeer Infuenced and Corrupt Organi- zations Act could have extraterritorial application in some circumstances because many of its predicate offenses “plainly apply to at least some foreign conduct” and “[a]t least one predicate . . . applies only to conduct occurring outside the United States.” Id., at . Here, neither provision at issue provides an express state- ment of extraterritorial application or any other clear indica- tion that it is one of the “rare” provisions that nonetheless applies abroad. Both simply prohibit the use “in com- merce,” under congressionally prescribed conditions, of pro- tected trademarks when that use “is likely to cause confu- sion.” §§ ()(a), (a)(). Hetronic acknowledges that neither provision on its own signals extraterritorial application, but it argues that the requisite indication can be found in the Lanham Act's def- inition of “commerce,” which applies to both provisions. Under that definition, “ `commerce' means all commerce which may lawfully be regulated by Congress.” § . Hetronic offers two reasons why this defnition is suffcient to rebut the presumption against extraterritoriality. First, it argues that the language naturally leads to this result be- cause Congress can lawfully regulate foreign conduct under the Foreign Commerce Clause. Second, it contends that ex- traterritoriality is confrmed by the fact that this defnition is unique in the U. S. Code and thus differs from what it describes as “boilerplate” defnitions of “ `commerce' ” in other statutes. Brief for Respondent . Neither reason is suffcient. When applying the presump- tion, “ `we have repeatedly held that even statutes . . . that expressly refer to “ foreign commerce” ' ” when defining “commerce” are not extraterritorial. Morrison, U. S., Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court at –; see also RJR Nabisco, U. S., at . This conclusion dooms Hetronic's argument. If an express statu- tory reference to “foreign commerce” is not enough to rebut the presumption, the same must be true of a defnition of “commerce” that refers to Congress's authority to regulate foreign commerce. That result does not change simply be- cause the provision refers to “all” commerce Congress can regulate. See Kiobel, U. S., at (“[I]t is well estab- lished that generic terms like `any' or `every' do not rebut the presumption against extraterritoriality”). And the mere fact that the Lanham Act contains a substantively simi- lar defnition that departs from the so-called “boilerplate” defnitions used in other statutes cannot justify a different conclusion either. C Because § ()(a) and § (a)() are not extraterrito- rial, we must consider when claims involve “domestic” appli- cations of these provisions. As discussed above, the proper test requires determining the provision's focus and then as- certaining whether Hetronic can “establish that `the conduct relevant to [that] focus occurred in the United States.' ” Nestlé, U. S., at ––– – –––. Much of the parties' dispute in this case misses this critical point and centers on the “focus” of the relevant provisions without regard to the “conduct relevant to that focus.” WesternGeco, U. S., at –––. Abitron contends that § ()(a) and § (a)() focus on preventing infringing use of trademarks, while Hetronic argues that they focus both on protecting the goodwill of mark owners and on pre- venting consumer confusion. The United States as amicus curiae argues that the provisions focus on only likely con- sumer confusion. The parties all seek support for their positions in Steele v. Bulova Watch Co., U. S. (), but that decision is of little assistance here. There, we considered a suit alleg- ing that the defendant, through activity in both the United Page Proof Pending Publication ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH v. HETRONIC INT'L, INC. Opinion of the Court States and Mexico, had violated the Lanham Act by produc- ing and selling watches stamped with a trademark that was protected in the United States. Although we allowed the claim to proceed, our analysis understandably did not follow the two-step framework that we would develop decades later. Our decision was instead narrow and factbound. It rested on the judgment that “the facts in the record . . . when viewed as a whole” were suffcient to rebut the presumption against extraterritoriality. Id., at . In reaching this conclusion, we repeatedly emphasized both that the defend- ant committed “essential steps” in the course of his infring- ing conduct in the United States and that his conduct was likely to and did cause consumer confusion in the United States. Id., at –; accord, e. g., id., at (“His opera- tions and their effects were not confned within the territo- rial limits of a foreign nation”); id., at (“[P]etitioner by his `own deliberate acts, here and elsewhere, brought about forbidden results within the United States' ” (alteration omitted)). Because Steele implicated both domestic con- duct and a likelihood of domestic confusion, it does not tell us which one determines the domestic applications of § ()(a) and § (a)(). With Steele put aside, then, we think the parties' particu- lar debate over the “focus” of § ()(a) and § (a)() in the abstract does not exhaust the relevant inquiry. The ulti- mate question regarding permissible domestic application turns on the location of the conduct relevant to the focus. See, e. g., RJR Nabisco, U. S., at . And the conduct relevant to any focus the parties have proffered is infringing use in commerce, as the Act defnes it. This conclusion follows from the text and context of § ()(a) and § (a)(). Both provisions prohibit the For example, we noted that the trademark owner's “Texas sales repre- sentative received numerous complaints from [American] retail jewelers . . . whose customers brought in for repair defective” branded watches. Steele, U. S., at ; accord, Bulova Watch Co. v. Steele, F. d , (CA ). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court unauthorized use “in commerce” of a protected trademark when, among other things, that use “is likely to cause confu- sion.” §§ ()(a), (a)(). In other words, Congress proscribed the use of a mark in commerce under certain con- ditions. This conduct, to be sure, must create a suffcient risk of confusion, but confusion is not a separate require- ment; rather, it is simply a necessary characteristic of an offending use. Because Congress has premised liability on a specifc action (a particular sort of use in commerce), that specifc action would be the conduct relevant to any focus on offer today. See, e. g., WesternGeco, U. S., at ––– – –––. In sum, as this case comes to us, “use in commerce” is the conduct relevant to any potential focus of § ()(a) and § (a)() because Congress deemed a violation of either provision to occur each time a mark is used in commerce in the way Congress described, with no need for any actual confusion. Under step two of our extraterritoriality stand- ard, then, “use in commerce” provides the dividing line be- tween foreign and domestic applications of these Lanham Act provisions. III Resisting this straightforward application of our prece- dent, Justice Sotomayor concludes that step two of our extraterritoriality framework turns solely on whether “the Both provisions “refer to a `likelihood' of harm, rather than a completed harm.” Moseley v. V Secret Catalogue, Inc., U. S. , (). In other words, “actual confusion is not necessary in order to prove infringe- ment.” Restatement (Third) of Unfair Competition § , at , Com- ment b (); accord, id., § , at , Comment d; J. McCarthy, Trade- marks and Unfair Competition § :, at – (th ed. ) (McCarthy) (“ `[I]t is black letter law that actual confusion need not be shown to prevail under the Lanham Act, since . . . the Act requires only a likelihood of confusion' ”). Instead, the provisions treat confusion as a means to limit liability to only certain “bona fde use[s] of a mark in the ordinary course of trade.” U. S. C. § (defning “use in commerce”); see Patent and Trademark Offce v. Booking.com B. V., U. S. –––, ––– () (“[A] competitor's use does not infringe a mark [under § ()(a) and § (a)()] unless it is likely to confuse consumers”). Page Proof Pending Publication ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH v. HETRONIC INT'L, INC. Opinion of the Court object of the statute's focus is found in, or occurs in, the United States.” Post, at (opinion concurring in judg- ment). Applied to the Lanham Act, the upshot of this focus- only standard is that any claim involving a likelihood of con- sumer confusion in the United States would be a “domestic” application of the Act. This approach is wrong, and it would give the Lanham Act an untenably broad reach that under- mines our extraterritoriality framework. A To justify looking only to a provision's “focus,” Justice Sotomayor maintains that “an application of a statute” can still be domestic “when foreign conduct is implicated.” Post, at . If this assertion simply means that a permissi- ble domestic application can occur even when some foreign “activity is involved in the case,” Morrison, U. S., at , then it is true but misses the point. When a claim involves both domestic and foreign activity, the question is whether “ `the conduct relevant to the statute's focus occurred in the United States.' ” Nestlé, U. S., at ––– – –––. If that “ `conduct . . . occurred in the United States, then the case involves a permissible domestic application' of the statute `even if other conduct occurred abroad.' ” WesternGeco, U. S., at –––. But “if the conduct relevant to the focus oc- curred in a foreign country, then the case involves an imper- missible extraterritorial application regardless of any other conduct that occurred in U. S. territory.” RJR Nabisco, U. S., at ; see, e. g., WesternGeco, U. S., at –––; Nestlé, U. S., at ––– – –––; Morrison, U. S., at –, –. These holdings were not, as Justice Sotomayor suggests, premised on this Court's “frst conclud[ing] (or assum[ing] without deciding) that the focus of the provision at issue was conduct.” Post, at . They were unambiguously part of this Court's articulation of the two-step framework, and, in each case, these holdings came before we began analyzing Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court the focus of the provisions at issue. For this reason, none of our cases has ever held that statutory focus was disposi- tive at step two of our framework. To the contrary, we have acknowledged that courts do “not need to determine [a] stat- ute's `focus' ” when all conduct regarding the violations “ `took place outside the United States.' ” RJR Nabisco, U. S., at (quoting Kiobel, U. S., at ); see, e. g., Nestlé, U. S., at ––– (“To plead facts suffcient to support a domestic application of the [Alien Tort Statute], plaintiffs must allege more domestic conduct than general corporate activity”). That conclusion, as well as the decisions applying it, are inexplicable under a focus-only standard. See supra, at . Beyond straying from established precedent, a focus-only approach would create headaches for lower courts required to grapple with this new approach. For statutes (like this one) regulating conduct, the location of the conduct relevant to the focus provides a clear signal at both steps of our two- step framework. See RJR Nabisco, U. S., at , . Under Justice Sotomayor's standard, by contrast, litigants and lower courts are told that the step-two inquiry turns on the “ `focus' ” alone, which (as we have said) “can be `conduct,' `parties,' or `interests' that Congress sought to protect or regulate.” Post, at ; see WesternGeco, U. S., at –––. As a result, almost any claim involving exclusively foreign conduct could be repackaged as a “domestic application.” And almost any claim under a non-extraterritorial provision could be defeated by labeling it a “foreign application,” even if the conduct at issue was exclusively domestic. This is far from the measure of certainty that the presumption against extraterritoriality is designed to provide. B Justice Sotomayor’s expansive understanding of the Lanham Act's domestic applications threatens to negate the presumption against extraterritoriality. In Morrison, we ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH v. HETRONIC INT'L, INC. Opinion of the Court warned that “the presumption against extraterritorial appli- cation would be a craven watchdog indeed if it retreated to its kennel whenever some domestic activity is involved in the case.” U. S., at . If a claim under the Act involves a domestic application whenever particular “ `effects are likely to occur in the United States,' ” post, at , the watch- dog is nothing more than a muzzled Chihuahua. Under such a test, it would not even be necessary that “some” domestic activity be involved. It would be enough for there to be merely a likelihood of an effect in this country. Applying that standard here would require even less connection to the United States than some explicitly extraterritorial statutes, which must have, at a minimum, actual domestic effects to be invoked. See, e. g., Hartford Fire Ins. Co. v. California, U. S. , () (holding that the extraterritorial provision at issue “applies to foreign conduct that was meant to produce and did in fact produce some substantial effect in the United States”). This approach threatens “ `international discord.' ” Kio- bel, U. S., at . In nearly all countries, including the United States, trademark law is territorial—i. e., “a trade- mark is recognized as having a separate existence in each sovereign territory in which it is registered or legally recog- nized as a mark.” McCarthy § :, at – to –. Thus, each country is empowered to grant trademark rights and police infringement within its borders. See, e. g., ibid.; Ingenohl v. Olsen & Co., U. S. , (); A. Bour- jois & Co. v. Katzel, U. S. , (). This principle has long been enshrined in international law. Under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, July , , U. S. T. , T. I. A. S. No. , a “mark duly registered in a country of the Union shall be regarded as independent of marks registered in other coun- tries of the Union,” and the seizure of infringing goods is authorized “on importation” to a country “where such mark Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court or trade name is entitled to legal protection.” Arts. (), (), id., at , . The Convention likewise provides mechanisms for trademark holders to secure trademark pro- tection in other countries under the domestic law of those countries. Arts. (), ()–(), id., at –; see also McCarthy § :, at – to –; Protocol Relating to Ma- drid Agreement Concerning International Registration of Marks, June , , T. I. A. S. No. –, S. Treaty Doc. No. – (entered into force Dec. , ) (providing mech- anisms for the extension of trademark protection to multiple jurisdictions under domestic law). The Lanham Act, which is designed to implement “treaties and conventions respect- ing trademarks,” § , incorporates this territorial prem- ise, mandating that registration of a foreign trademark in the United States “shall be independent of the registra- tion in the country of origin” and that the rights of that mark in the United States are governed by domestic law, § (f). Because of the territorial nature of trademarks, the “prob- ability of incompatibility with the applicable laws of other counties is so obvious that if Congress intended such foreign application `it would have addressed the subject of conficts with foreign laws and procedures.' ” Morrison, U. S., at . The use of a mark—even confned to one country—will often have effects that radiate to any number of countries. And when determining exactly what form of abstract con- sumer confusion is suffcient in a given case, the Judiciary would be thrust into the unappetizing task of “navigating foreign policy disputes belong[ing] to the political branches.” Jesner v. Arab Bank, PLC, U. S. –––, ––– () (Gor- such, J., concurring in part and