and Benjamin Cardozo, had reached similar conclusions in similar cases in the years leading up to Pennsylvania Fire. See Smolik v. Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron Co., F. , – (SDNY ) (Hand, J.); Bagdon v. Philadel- phia & Reading Coal & Iron Co., N. Y. , –, N. E. , – () (Cardozo, J.). In the years following Pennsylvania Fire, too, this Court reaffrmed its holding as often as the issue arose. See, e. g., Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Chatters, U. S. , – (); Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., U. S. , (); see also Robert Mitchell Furniture Co. v. Selden Breck Constr. Co., U. S. , – (); Wuchter v. Pizzutti, U. S. , (). B Pennsylvania Fire controls this case. Much like the Mis- souri law at issue there, the Pennsylvania law at issue here provides that an out-of-state corporation “may not do busi- ness in this Commonwealth until it registers with” the De- partment of State. Pa. Cons. Stat. § (a). As part of the registration process, a corporation must identify an “of- fce” it will “continuously maintain” in the Commonwealth. §(f); see also §(a)(). Upon completing these require- ments, the corporation “shall enjoy the same rights and priv- ileges as a domestic entity and shall be subject to the same liabilities, restrictions, duties and penalties . . . imposed on domestic entities.” § (d). Among other things, Pennsyl- vania law is explicit that “qualifcation as a foreign corpora- tion” shall permit state courts to “exercise general personal jurisdiction” over a registered foreign corporation, just as they can over domestic corporations. Pa. Cons. Stat. § (a)()(i). Norfolk Southern has complied with this law for many years. In , the company registered to do business in Pennsylvania. Acting through its Corporate Secretary as a Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court “duly authorized offcer,” the company completed an “Ap- plication for Certifcate of Authority” from the Common- wealth “[i]n compliance with” state law. App. –. As part of that process, the company named a “Commercial Regis- tered Offce Provider” in Philadelphia County, agreeing that this was where it “shall be deemed . . . located.” Ibid. The Secretary of the Commonwealth approved the application, conferring on Norfolk Southern both the benefts and bur- dens shared by domestic corporations—including amenabil- ity to suit in state court on any claim. Id., at . Since , Norfolk Southern has regularly updated its information on file with the Secretary. In , for example, the company advised that it had changed its Registered Offce Provider and would now be deemed located in Dauphin County. Id., at ; see Pa. Cons. Stat. § (b) (). All told, then, Norfolk Southern has agreed to be found in Pennsylvania and answer any suit there for more than years. Pennsylvania Fire held that suits premised on these grounds do not deny a defendant due process of law. Even Norfolk Southern does not seriously dispute that much. It concedes that it registered to do business in Pennsylvania, that it established an offce there to receive service of proc- ess, and that in doing so it understood it would be amenable to suit on any claim. Tr. of Oral Arg. ; post, at – (Alito, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); post, at (Jackson, J., concurring). Of course, Mr. Mal- lory no longer lives in Pennsylvania and his cause of action did not accrue there. But none of that makes any more dif- ference than the fact that Gold Issue Mining was not from Missouri (but from Arizona) and its claim did not arise there (but in Colorado). See Pennsylvania Fire, Mo., at , S. W., at . To decide this case, we need not specu- late whether any other statutory scheme and set of facts would suffce to establish consent to suit. It is enough to Page Proof Pending Publication MALLORY v. NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO.