Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court. True threats of violence are outside the bounds of First Amendment protection and punishable as crimes. Today we consider a criminal conviction for communications falling within that historically unprotected category. The question presented is whether the First Amendment still requires proof that the defendant had some subjective understanding of the threatening nature of his statements. We hold that it does, but that a mental state of recklessness is suffcient. The State must show that the defendant consciously disre- garded a substantial risk that his communications would be viewed as threatening violence. The State need not prove any more demanding form of subjective intent to threaten another. M. Frey of Maine, Andrea Joy Campbell of Massachusetts, Dana Nessel of Michigan, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, John M. Formella of New Hampshire, Matthew J. Platkin of New Jersey, Raúl Torrez of New Mexico, Joshua H. Stein of North Carolina, Dave Yost of Ohio, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Michelle A. Henry of Pennsylvania, Marty Jackley of South Dakota, Jonathan Skrmetti of Tennessee, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Charity R. Clark of Vermont, Jason S. Miyares of Virginia, and Bridget Hill of Wyoming; for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger and Kymberlee C. Stapleton; for First Amendment Scholars by Jeffrey A. Mandell and Erin K. Deeley; for First Amendment Scholars by Charlotte H. Taylor; for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by Damon Hewitt, Jon Greenbaum, Dariely Rodriguez, David Brody, Marc Epstein, and Anthony D. Mire- nda; for Legal Momentum et al. by Mary-Christine Sungaila and Lynn Hecht Schafran; for the National Family Violence Law Center et al. by David B. Salmons, Jonathan M. Albano, Stephanie Schuster, and Joan S. Meier; and for Coles Whalen by Allyson N. Ho, Bradley G. Hubbard, and Paul G. Cassell. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Alliance Defending Freedom by John J. Bursch, Tyson C. Langhofer, and Travis C. Barham; for the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression by Darpana M. Sheth; for Human Rights for Kids by John H. Fleming, Suzanne S. La Pierre, James Dold, Adam C. Pollet, Joel E. Hoffman, and Daniel Morris; and for Jack Jordan by Mr. Jordan, pro se. COUNTERMAN v. COLORADO Opinion of the Court I From to , petitioner Billy Counterman sent hun- dreds of Facebook messages to C. W., a local singer and musi- cian. The two had never met, and C. W. never responded. In fact, she repeatedly blocked Counterman. But each time, he created a new Facebook account and resumed his con- tacts. Some of his messages were utterly prosaic (“Good morning sweetheart”; “I am going to the store would you like anything?”)—except that they were coming from a total stranger. App. . Others suggested that Counterman might be surveilling C. W. He asked “[w]as that you in the white Jeep?”; referenced “[a] fne display with your partner”; and noted “a couple [of] physical sightings.” P. d , (Colo. App. ). And most critically, a number ex- pressed anger at C. W. and envisaged harm befalling her: “Fuck off permanently.” Ibid. “Staying in cyber life is going to kill you.” Ibid. “You're not being good for human relations. Die.” Ibid. The messages put C. W. in fear and upended her daily ex- istence. She believed that Counterman was “threat[ening her] life”; “was very fearful that he was following” her; and was “afraid [she] would get hurt.” App. , , . As a result, she had “a lot of trouble sleeping” and suffered from severe anxiety. Id., at ; see id., at –. She stopped walking alone, declined social engagements, and canceled some of her performances, though doing so caused her fnan- cial strain. See id., at –, , –, –. Eventually, C. W. decided that she had to contact the authori- ties. Id., at . Colorado charged Counterman under a statute making it unlawful to “[r]epeatedly . . . make[ ] any form of communica- tion with another person” in “a manner that would cause a reasonable person to suffer serious emotional distress and does cause that person . . . to suffer serious emotional dis- tress.” Colo. Rev. Stat. § ––()(c) (). The only Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court evidence the State proposed to introduce at trial were his Facebook messages. Counterman moved to dismiss the charge on First Amend- ment grounds, arguing that his messages were not “true threats” and therefore could not form the basis of a criminal prosecution. In line with Colorado law, the trial court as- sessed the true-threat issue using an “objective `reasonable person' standard.” People v. Cross, P. d , (Colo. ). Under that standard, the State had to show that a reasonable person would have viewed the Facebook mes- sages as threatening. By contrast, the State had no need to prove that Counterman had any kind of “subjective intent to threaten” C. W. In re R. D., P. d , , n. (Colo. ). The court decided, after “consider[ing] the totality of the circumstances,” that Counterman's statements “r[o]se to the level of a true threat.” P. d, at . Because that was so, the court ruled, the First Amendment posed no bar to prosecution. The court accordingly sent the case to the jury, which found Counterman guilty as charged. The Colorado Court of Appeals affrmed. Counterman had urged the court to hold that the First Amendment re- quired the State to show that he was aware of the threaten- ing nature of his statements. Relying on its precedent, the court turned the request down: It “decline[d] today to say that a speaker's subjective intent to threaten is necessary” under the First Amendment to procure a conviction for threatening communications. Id., at (quoting R. D., The statute Counterman was charged with violating is titled a “stalk- ing” statute and also prohibits “[r]epeatedly follow[ing], approach[ing], contact[ing], [or] plac[ing] under surveillance” another person. §–– ()(c). But the State had no evidence, beyond what Counterman claimed, that he actually had followed or surveilled C. W. For example, C. W. had never noticed anything of that kind. So the prosecution based its case solely on Counterman's “[r]epeated[ ] . . . communication[s]” with C. W. Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication COUNTERMAN v. COLORADO Opinion of the Court P. d, at , n. ). Using the established objective stand- ard, the court then approved the trial court's ruling that Counterman's messages were “true threats” and so were not protected by the First Amendment. P. d, at . The Colorado Supreme Court denied review. Courts are divided about () whether the First Amend- ment requires proof of a defendant's subjective mindset in true-threats cases, and () if so, what mens rea standard is suffcient. We therefore granted certiorari. U. S. ––– (). II True threats of violence, everyone agrees, lie outside the bounds of the First Amendment's protection. And a state- ment can count as such a threat based solely on its objective content. The frst dispute here is about whether the First Amendment nonetheless demands that the State in a true- threats case prove that the defendant was aware in some way of the threatening nature of his communications. Colo- rado argues that there is no such requirement. Counterman contends that there is one, based mainly on the likelihood that the absence of such a mens rea requirement will chill A preliminary clarifcation may be useful, concerning the difference between awareness of a communication's contents and awareness of its threatening nature. Everyone agrees, again, that the State must prove the former—and Colorado law appears to hold as much. See Colo. Rev. Stat. § ––()(c); Brief for Respondent . So, for example, if a de- fendant delivers a sealed envelope without knowing that a threatening letter is inside, he cannot be liable for the communication. So too (though this common example seems fairly preposterous) if a “foreigner, ignorant of the English language, who would not know the meaning of the words,” somehow manages to convey an English-language threat. Elonis v. United States, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). The question in this case arises when the defendant (unlike in those hypo- theticals) understands the content of the words, but may not grasp that others would fnd them threatening. Must he do so, under the First Amendment, for a true-threats prosecution to succeed? Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court protected, non-threatening speech. Counterman's view, we decide today, is the more consistent with our precedent. To combat the kind of chill he references, our decisions have often insisted on protecting even some historically unpro- tected speech through the adoption of a subjective mental- state element. We follow the same path today, holding that the State must prove in true-threats cases that the defend- ant had some understanding of his statements' threatening character. The second issue here concerns what precise mens rea standard suffces for the First Amendment purpose at issue. Again guided by our precedent, we hold that a recklessness standard is enough. Given that a subjective standard here shields speech not independently entitled to protection—and indeed posing real dangers—we do not re- quire that the State prove the defendant had any more spe- cifc intent to threaten the victim. A “From to the present,” the First Amendment has “permitted restrictions upon the content of speech in a few limited areas.” United States v. Stevens, U. S. , (). These “historic and traditional categories” are “long familiar to the bar” and perhaps, too, the general public. Ibid. One is incitement—statements “directed [at] pro- ducing imminent lawless action,” and likely to do so. Bran- denburg v. Ohio, U. S. , () (per curiam). Another is defamation—false statements of fact harming another's reputation. See Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., U. S. , , (). Still a third is obscenity—value- less material “appeal[ing] to the prurient interest” and de- scribing “sexual conduct” in “a patently offensive way.” Miller v. California, U. S. , (). This Court has “often described [those] historically unprotected categories of speech as being of such slight social value as a step to truth that any beneft that may be derived from them is Page Proof Pending Publication COUNTERMAN v. COLORADO Opinion of the Court clearly outweighed by the social interest” in their proscrip- tion. Stevens, U. S., at (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis deleted). “True threats” of violence is another historically unpro- tected category of communications. Virginia v. Black, U. S. , (); see United States v. Alvarez, U. S. , – () (plurality opinion). The “true” in that term distinguishes what is at issue from jests, “hyperbole,” or other statements that when taken in context do not con- vey a real possibility that violence will follow (say, “I am going to kill you for showing up late”). Watts v. United States, U. S. , () (per curiam). True threats are “serious expression[s]” conveying that a speaker means to “commit an act of unlawful violence.” Black, U. S., at . Whether the speaker is aware of, and intends to convey, the threatening aspect of the message is not part of what makes a statement a threat, as this Court recently explained. See Elonis v. United States, U. S. , (). The existence of a threat depends not on “the men- tal state of the author,” but on “what the statement conveys” to the person on the other end. Ibid. When the statement is understood as a true threat, all the harms that have long made threats unprotected naturally follow. True threats subject individuals to “fear of violence” and to the many kinds of “disruption that fear engenders.” Black, U. S., at (internal quotation marks omitted). The facts of this case well illustrate how. The concurrence relies on Virginia v. Black, U. S. (), to argue that the category of true threats itself incorporates a mens rea element. See post, at –, (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part and