Justice Gorsuch delivered the opinion of the Court. Like many States, Colorado has a law forbidding busi- nesses from engaging in discrimination when they sell goods States Legal Foundation et al. by William E. Trachman, Braden Boucek, and Kimberly Hermann; for Multimedia Production Professionals by John C. Sullivan; for the National Association of Evangelicals et al. by Freder- ick W. Claybrook, Jr., Mr. Fitschen, and James A. Davids; for Scholars of Family and Sexuality by Dean R. Broyles; for the Thomas More Law Center by Erin Elizabeth Mersino and Richard Thompson; for Tyndale House Publishers et al. by Christopher E. Mills; for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops et al. by Eric N. Kniffn; for United States Senators et al. by J. Michael Connolly; for Walk for Life West Coast by Samuel D. Green and Renee K. Carlson; for Young America's Foundation by David H. Thompson and John D. Ohlendorf; for Dale Carpenter et al. by Eugene Volokh, Mr. Carpenter, Ilya Shapiro, all pro se, Theodore H. Frank, and Anna St. John; for Robert P. George by Edward M. Wenger; for Christopher R. Green by Mr. Green, pro se, Randall Wenger and Jer- emy Samek; for Mark Janus et al. by Jeffrey M. Schwab and M. E. Buck Dougherty III; for Aaron Klein et al. by Kelly J. Shackelford, Jeffrey C. Mateer, David J. Hacker, Stephanie N. Taub, and Herbert G. Grey; for Adam J. MacLeod by Jeffrey A. Shafer; and for Family Policy Organiza- tions by David French. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Massachusetts et al. by Maura Healey, Attorney General of Massachu- setts, Elizabeth N. Dewar, State Solicitor, and Abigail B. Taylor and Adam M. Cambier, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General of their respective jurisdictions as follows: Rob Bonta of Califor- nia, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of Delaware, Karl A. Racine of the District of Columbia, Holly T. Shikada of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Dana Nessel of Michigan, Keith Ellison of Minnesota, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Matthew J. Platkin of New Jersey, Hector Balderas of New Mex- ico, Letitia James of New York, Joshua H. Stein of North Carolina, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Susanne R. Young of Vermont, Robert W. Ferguson of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for the Adventist Forum et al. by Juan O. Perla and Hermann Ferré; for the American Bar Associ- ation by Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., Ginger D. Anders, and Deborah Enix- Ross; for the American Civil Liberties Union et al. by David D. Cole, Mark Silverstein, Jennesa Calvo-Friedman, James D. Esseks, Brian Hauss, Louise Melling, Rose Saxe, and Ria Tabacco Mar; for the Ameri- CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court and services to the public. Laws along these lines have done much to secure the civil rights of all Americans. But in this particular case Colorado does not just seek to ensure the sale of goods or services on equal terms. It seeks to use can Psychological Association et al. by Tassity S. Johnson, Urja Mittal, Deanne M. Ottaviano, and Nathalie Gilfoyle; for First Amendment Schol- ars by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and David H. Gans; for First Amendment Scholars by Michael R. Dreeben, Meaghan VerGow, and Melissa C. Cassel; for Former U. S. Rep. Anthony Coelho et al. by Sanford Jay Rosen and Michael S. Nunez; for the Freedom From Religion Founda- tion et al. by Patrick Elliott; for GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders et al. by Mary L. Bonauto, Gary D. Buseck, Chris Erchull, Jennifer C. Pizer, Shannon Minter, and Christopher F. Stoll; for the Lawyers' Com- mittee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by Ethan H. Townsend, Sarah P. Hogarth, Damon Hewitt, Jon Greenbaum, Dariely Rodriguez, and Ben- jamin F. Aiken; for Local Governments et al. by Sara J. Eisenberg, Julie Wilensky, Anne L. Morgan, Christopher D. Balch, Beth Cate, David Hughes, G. Nicholas Herman, Myriam Zreczny Kasper, Christopher J. Caso, Kristin M. Bronson, Robert E. Hornik, Jr., Barry N. Handwerger, Michael N. Feuer, Sylvia O. Hinds-Radix, Leslie J. Girard, Lyndsey M. Olson, Mark Barber, and James R. Williams; for the Modern Military Association of America et al. by Michael E. Bern and Peter Perkowski; for the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, Inc., by Janai S. Nelson, Samuel Spital, Georgina Yeomans, and Antonio L. Ingram II; for the National League of Cities et al. by Aileen M. McGrath and Pratik A. Shah; for the National Women's Law Center et al. by Megan L. Rodg- ers, Fatima Goss Graves, Emily J. Martin, and Sunu P. Chandy; for Pub- lic Accommodations Law Scholars by Joshua Matz, Raymond P. Tolen- tino, and Carmen Iguina González; for Public Citizen by Scott L. Nelson, Allison M. Zieve, and Nandan M. Joshi; for the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding by Robert J. Ward; for the Western Jurisdic- tion of the United Methodist Church et al. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Jeffrey S. Trachtman, Tobias B. Jacoby, and Jason M. Moff; for Ilan H. Meyer, Ph.D., et al. by Stephen B. Kinnaird; for Tobias B. Wolff by Mr. Wolff, pro se and Eric Alan Stone; for + Lay Roman Catholics by James K. Riley, pro se; for Religious, Civil Rights, and Grassroots Organizations by Jessica Ellsworth; and for Members of Congress by Peter T. Barbur. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Americans for Prosperity Founda- tion by Cynthia Fleming Crawford; for CatholicVote.org Education Fund by Scott W. Gaylord; for Creative Professionals et al. by Miles E. Cole- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court its law to compel an individual to create speech she does not believe. The question we face is whether that course vio- lates the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment. I A Through her business, Creative LLC, Lorie Smith of- fers website and graphic design, marketing advice, and social media management services. Recently, she decided to ex- pand her offerings to include services for couples seeking websites for their weddings. As she envisions it, her web- sites will provide couples with text, graphic arts, and videos to “celebrate” and “conve[y]” the “details” of their “unique love story.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a, a, a. The websites will discuss how the couple met, explain their back- grounds, families, and future plans, and provide information about their upcoming wedding. All of the text and graphics on these websites will be “original,” “customized,” and “tai- lored” creations. Id., at a. The websites will be “ex- pressive in nature,” designed “to communicate a particular message.” Id., at a. Viewers will know, too, “that the websites are [Ms. Smith's] original artwork,” for the name of the company she owns and operates by herself will be dis- played on every one. Id., at a. man; for Family Research Council by Jonathan R. Whitehead, Michael K. Whitehead, and Travis Weber; for Law and Economics Scholars by Sean P. Gates and Andrew C. Nichols; for the Lonang Institute by Kerry Lee Morgan and Randall A. Pentiuk; for the New York State Bar Association by Sherry Levin Wallach, Christopher R. Riano, Jacqueline J. Drohan, and Robert S. Rosborough IV; for Public Advocate of the United States et al. by William J. Olson, Jeremiah L. Morgan, Phillip L. Jauregui, Gary G. Kreep, Joseph W. Miller, J. Mark Brewer, and Patrick McSweeney; for Scholars of Behavioral Science et al. by Josephine K. Petrick, Adam W. Hofmann, and David C. Casarrubias; for Website and Graphic Designers by William L. Esser IV and Nicholas H. Lee; for David Boyle by Mr. Boyle, pro se; and for Kent Greenfeld by Daniel A. Rubens. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court While Ms. Smith has laid the groundwork for her new ven- ture, she has yet to carry out her plans. She worries that, if she does so, Colorado will force her to express views with which she disagrees. Ms. Smith provides her website and graphic services to customers regardless of their race, creed, sex, or sexual orientation. Id., at a. But she has never created expressions that contradict her own views for any- one—whether that means generating works that encourage violence, demean another person, or defy her religious be- liefs by, say, promoting atheism. See ibid.; see also Tr. of Oral Arg. –. Ms. Smith does not wish to do otherwise now, but she worries Colorado has different plans. Specif- cally, she worries that, if she enters the wedding website business, the State will force her to convey messages incon- sistent with her belief that marriage should be reserved to unions between one man and one woman. App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. Ms. Smith acknowledges that her views about marriage may not be popular in all quarters. But, she asserts, the First Amendment's Free Speech Clause protects her from being compelled to speak what she does not believe. The Constitution, she insists, protects her right to differ. B To clarify her rights, Ms. Smith fled a lawsuit in federal district court. In that suit, she sought an injunction to pre- vent the State from forcing her to create wedding websites celebrating marriages that defy her beliefs. App. –. To secure relief, Ms. Smith frst had to establish her standing to sue. That required her to show “a credible threat” ex- isted that Colorado would, in fact, seek to compel speech from her that she did not wish to produce. Susan B. An- thony List v. Driehaus, U. S. , (). Toward that end, Ms. Smith began by directing the court to the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act (CADA). That law defnes a “public accommodation” broadly to include almost Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court every public-facing business in the State. Colo. Rev. Stat. § ––() (). In what some call its “Accommoda- tion Clause,” the law prohibits a public accommodation from denying “the full and equal enjoyment” of its goods and serv- ices to any customer based on his race, creed, disability, sex- ual orientation, or other statutorily enumerated trait. § – –()(a). Either state offcials or private citizens may bring actions to enforce the law. §§ ––, –– (). And a variety of penalties can follow. Courts can order fines up to $ per violation. § ––()(a). The Colorado Commission on Civil Rights can issue cease- and-desist orders, § ––(), and require violators to take various other “affirmative action[s],” §§ ––, ––(). In the past, these have included participation in mandatory educational programs and the submission of ongoing compliance reports to state offcials. See Master- piece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Comm'n, U. S. –––, ––– (). In her lawsuit, Ms. Smith alleged that, if she enters the wedding website business to celebrate marriages she does endorse, she faces a credible threat that Colorado will seek to use CADA to compel her to create websites celebrat- ing marriages she does not endorse. F. th , – (CA ). As evidence, Ms. Smith pointed to Colo- In addition to the Accommodation Clause, CADA contains a “Com- munication Clause” that prohibits a public accommodation from “publish- [ing] . . . any written . . . communication” indicating that a person will be denied “the full and equal enjoyment” of services or that he will be “unwelcome, objectionable, unacceptable, or undesirable” based on a pro- tected classifcation. Colo. Rev. Stat. § ––()(a) (). The Com- munication Clause, Ms. Smith notes, prohibits any speech inconsistent with the Accommodation Clause. Because Colorado concedes that its authority to apply the Communication Clause to Ms. Smith stands or falls with its authority to apply the Accommodation Clause, see Brief for Respondents –, we focus our attention on the Accommodation Clause. Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court rado's record of past enforcement actions under CADA, including one that worked its way to this Court fve years ago. See Masterpiece Cakeshop, U. S., at –––; see also App. – (discussing Colorado's other past enforcement actions). To facilitate the district court's resolution of the merits of her case, Ms. Smith and the State stipulated to a number of facts: • Ms. Smith is “willing to work with all people regard- less of classifcations such as race, creed, sexual orien- tation, and gender,” and she “will gladly create custom graphics and websites” for clients of any sexual orien- tation. App. to Pet. for Cert. a. • She will not produce content that “contradicts biblical truth” regardless of who orders it. Ibid. • Her belief that marriage is a union between one man and one woman is a sincerely held religious conviction. Id., at a. • All of the graphic and website design services Ms. Smith provides are “expressive.” Id., at a. • The websites and graphics Ms. Smith designs are “original, customized” creations that “contribut[e] to the overall messages” her business conveys “through the websites” it creates. Id., at a–a. • Just like the other services she provides, the wedding websites Ms. Smith plans to create “will be expressive in nature.” Id., at a. • Those wedding websites will be “customized and tai- lored” through close collaboration with individual cou- ples, and they will “express Ms. Smith's and Cre- ative's message celebrating and promoting” her view of marriage. Id., at a–a. • Viewers of Ms. Smith's websites “will know that the websites are [Ms. Smith's and Creative's] original artwork.” Id., at a. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court • To the extent Ms. Smith may not be able to provide certain services to a potential customer, “[t]here are numerous companies in the State of Colorado and across the nation that offer custom website design services.” Id., at a. C Ultimately, the district court ruled against Ms. Smith. F. Supp. d , (Colo. ). So did the Tenth Cir- cuit. F. th, at . For its part, the Tenth Circuit held that Ms. Smith had standing to sue. In that court's judg- ment, she had established a credible threat that, if she fol- lows through on her plans to offer wedding website services, Colorado will invoke CADA to force her to create speech she does not believe or endorse. Id., at –. The court pointed to the fact that “Colorado has a history of past enforcement against nearly identical conduct—i. e., Master- piece Cakeshop”; that anyone in the State may fle a com- plaint against Ms. Smith and initiate “a potentially burden- some administrative hearing” process; and that “Colorado [has] decline[d] to disavow future enforcement” proceedings against her. Id., at . Before us, no party challenges these conclusions. Turning to the merits, however, the Tenth Circuit held that Ms. Smith was not entitled to the injunction she sought. The court acknowledged that Ms. Smith's planned wedding websites qualify as “pure speech” protected by the First Amendment. Id., at . As a result, the court reasoned, Colorado had to satisfy “strict scrutiny” before compelling speech from her that she did not wish to create. Id., at . Under that standard, the court continued, the State had to show both that forcing Ms. Smith to create speech would serve a compelling governmental interest and that no less restrictive alternative exists to secure that interest. Ibid. Ultimately, a divided panel concluded that the State had car- ried these burdens. As the majority saw it, Colorado has Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court a compelling interest in ensuring “equal access to publicly available goods and services,” and no option short of coercing speech from Ms. Smith can satisfy that interest because she plans to offer “unique services” that are, “by defnition, un- available elsewhere.” Id., at – (internal quotation marks omitted). Chief Judge Tymkovich dissented. He observed that “en- suring access to a particular person's” voice, expression, or artistic talent has never qualifed as “a compelling state in- terest” under this Court's precedents. Id., at . Nor, he submitted, should courts depart from those precedents now. “Taken to its logical end,” Chief Judge Tymkovich warned, his colleagues' approach would permit the govern- ment to “regulate the messages communicated by all art- ists”—a result he called “unprecedented.” Id., at . We granted certiorari to review the Tenth Circuit's dispo- sition. U. S. ––– (). II The framers designed the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment to protect the “freedom to think as you will and to speak as you think.” Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, U. S. , – () (internal quotation marks omitted). They did so because they saw the freedom of speech “both as an end and as a means.” Whitney v. California, U. S. , () (Brandeis, J., concurring); see also The Pa- pers of James Madison – (C. Hobson & R. Rutland eds. ). An end because the freedom to think and speak is among our inalienable human rights. See, e. g., Annals of Cong. () (Rep. Madison). A means because the free- dom of thought and speech is “indispensable to the discovery and spread of political truth.” Whitney, U. S., at (Brandeis, J., concurring). By allowing all views to fourish, the framers understood, we may test and improve our own thinking both as individuals and as a Nation. For all these reasons, “[i]f there is any fxed star in our constitutional con- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court stellation,” West Virginia Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette, U. S. , (), it is the principle that the government may not interfere with “an uninhibited marketplace of ideas,” Mc- Cullen v. Coakley, U. S. , () (internal quota- tion marks omitted). From time to time, governments in this country have sought to test these foundational principles. In Barnette, for example, the Court faced an effort by the State of West Virginia to force schoolchildren to salute the Nation's fag and recite the Pledge of Allegiance. If the students refused, the State threatened to expel them and fne or jail their par- ents. Some families objected on the ground that the State sought to compel their children to express views at odds with their faith as Jehovah's Witnesses. When the dispute ar- rived here, this Court offered a frm response. In seeking to compel students to salute the fag and recite a pledge, the Court held, state authorities had “transcend[ed] consti- tutional limitations on their powers.” U. S., at . Their dictates “invade[d] the sphere of intellect and spirit which it is the purpose of the First Amendment . . . to re- serve from all offcial control.” Ibid. A similar story unfolded in Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston, Inc., U. S. (). There, veterans organizing a St. Patrick's Day pa- rade in Boston refused to include a group of gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals in their event. The group argued that Massachusetts's public accommodations statute entitled it to participate in the parade as a matter of law. Id., at –. Lower courts agreed. Id., at –. But this Court re- versed. Id., at . Whatever state law may demand, this Court explained, the parade was constitutionally protected speech and requiring the veterans to include voices they wished to exclude would impermissibly require them to “alter the expressive content of their parade.” Id., at – . The veterans' choice of what to say (and not say) might have been unpopular, but they had a First Amendment right Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court to present their message undiluted by views they did not share. Then there is Boy Scouts of America v. Dale. In that case, the Boy Scouts excluded James Dale, an assistant scoutmaster, from membership after learning he was gay. Mr. Dale argued that New Jersey's public accommodations law required the Scouts to reinstate him. U. S., at – . The New Jersey Supreme Court sided with Mr. Dale, id., at –, but again this Court reversed, id., at . The decision to exclude Mr. Dale may not have implicated pure speech, but this Court held that the Boy Scouts “is an expressive association” entitled to First Amendment protec- tion. Id., at . And, the Court found, forcing the Scouts to include Mr. Dale would “interfere with [its] choice not to propound a point of view contrary to its beliefs.” Id., at . As these cases illustrate, the First Amendment protects an individual's right to speak his mind regardless of whether the government considers his speech sensible and well inten- tioned or deeply “misguided,” Hurley, U. S., at , and likely to cause “anguish” or “incalculable grief,” Snyder v. Phelps, U. S. , (). Equally, the First Amend- ment protects acts of expressive association. See, e. g., Dale, U. S., at –; Hurley, U. S., at –, . Generally, too, the government may not compel a person to speak its own preferred messages. See Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist., U. S. , – (); see also, e. g., Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo, U. S. , (); Wooley v. Maynard, U. S. , (); National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra, U. S. –––, ––– () (NIFLA). Nor does it matter whether the government seeks to compel a person to speak its message when he would prefer to re- main silent or to force an individual to include other ideas with his own speech that he would prefer not to include. See Hurley, U. S., at –, ; see also Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic & Institutional Rights, Inc., U. S. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court , – () (FAIR) (discussing cases). All that offends the First Amendment just the same. III Applying these principles to this case, we align ourselves with much of the Tenth Circuit's analysis. The Tenth Cir- cuit held that the wedding websites Ms. Smith seeks to cre- ate qualify as “pure speech” under this Court's precedents. F. th, at . We agree. It is a conclusion that fows directly from the parties' stipulations. They have stipulated that Ms. Smith's websites promise to contain “images, words, symbols, and other modes of expression.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a. They have stipulated that every website will be her “original, customized” creation. Id., at a–a. And they have stipulated that Ms. Smith will create these websites to communicate ideas—namely, to “celebrate and promote the couple's wedding and unique love story” and to “celebrat[e] and promot[e]” what Ms. Smith understands to be a true marriage. Id., at a–a. A hundred years ago, Ms. Smith might have furnished her services using pen and paper. Those services are no less protected speech today because they are conveyed with a “voice that resonates farther than it could from any soap- box.” Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, U. S. , (). All manner of speech—from “pictures, flms, paintings, drawings, and engravings,” to “oral utter- ance and the printed word”—qualify for the First Amend- ment's protections; no less can hold true when it comes to speech like Ms. Smith's conveyed over the Internet. Kaplan v. California, U. S. , – (); see also Shurtleff v. Boston, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– () (fags); Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Assn., U. S. , () (video games); Hurley, U. S., at – (parades); Ward v. Rock Against Racism, U. S. , () (music); Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, U. S. , – () (movies). Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court We further agree with the Tenth Circuit that the wedding websites Ms. Smith seeks to create involve her speech. F. th, at , and n. . Again, the parties' stipulations lead the way to that conclusion. See App. to Pet. for Cert. a, a. As the parties have described it, Ms. Smith intends to “ve[t]” each prospective project to determine whether it is one she is willing to endorse. Id., at a. She will con- sult with clients to discuss “their unique stories as source material.” Id., at a. And she will produce a fnal story for each couple using her own words and her own “original artwork.” Id., at a–a. Of course, Ms. Smith's speech may combine with the couple's in the fnal product. But for purposes of the First Amendment that changes nothing. An individual “does not forfeit constitutional protection simply by combining multifarious voices” in a single communication. Hurley, U. S., at . As surely as Ms. Smith seeks to engage in protected First Amendment speech, Colorado seeks to compel speech Ms. Smith does not wish to provide. As the Tenth Circuit observed, if Ms. Smith offers wedding websites celebrating marriages she endorses, the State intends to “forc[e her] to create custom websites” celebrating other marriages she does not. F. th, at . Colorado seeks to compel this speech in order to “excis[e] certain ideas or viewpoints from the public dialogue.” Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, U. S. , (). Indeed, the Tenth Circuit recognized that the coercive “[e]liminati[on]” of dissenting “ideas” about marriage constitutes Colorado's “very pur- pose” in seeking to apply its law to Ms. Smith. F. th, at . We part ways with the Tenth Circuit only when it comes to the legal conclusions that follow. While that court thought Colorado could compel speech from Ms. Smith consistent with the Constitution, our First Amendment precedents laid out above teach otherwise. In Hurley, the Court found that Massachusetts impermissibly compelled speech in violation Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court of the First Amendment when it sought to force parade orga- nizers to accept participants who would “affec[t] the[ir] mes- sage.” U. S., at . In Dale, the Court held that New Jersey intruded on the Boy Scouts' First Amendment rights when it tried to require the group to “propound a point of view contrary to its beliefs” by directing its membership choices. U. S., at . And in Barnette, this Court found impermissible coercion when West Virginia required schoolchildren to recite a pledge that contravened their con- victions on threat of punishment or expulsion. U. S., at –. Here, Colorado seeks to put Ms. Smith to a similar choice: If she wishes to speak, she must either speak as the State demands or face sanctions for expressing her own be- liefs, sanctions that may include compulsory participation in “remedial . . . training,” fling periodic compliance reports as offcials deem necessary, and paying monetary fnes. App. ; supra, at –. Under our precedents, that “is enough,” more than enough, to represent an impermissible abridgment of the First Amendment's right to speak freely. Hurley, U. S., at . Consider what a contrary approach would mean. Under Colorado's logic, the government may compel anyone who speaks for pay on a given topic to accept all commissions on that same topic—no matter the underlying message—if the topic somehow implicates a customer's statutorily protected trait. F. th, at (Tymkovich, C. J., dissenting). Taken seriously, that principle would allow the government to force all manner of artists, speechwriters, and others whose services involve speech to speak what they do not believe on pain of penalty. The government could require “an unwilling Muslim movie director to make a flm with a Zionist message,” or “an atheist muralist to accept a commis- sion celebrating Evangelical zeal,” so long as they would make flms or murals for other members of the public with different messages. Id., at . Equally, the government could force a male website designer married to another man Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court to design websites for an organization that advocates against same-sex marriage. See Brief for Petitioners –. Countless other creative professionals, too, could be forced to choose between remaining silent, producing speech that violates their beliefs, or speaking their minds and incurring sanctions for doing so. See, e. g., Brief for Creative Profes- sionals et al. as Amici Curiae –; Brief for First Amend- ment Scholars as Amici Curiae –. As our precedents recognize, the First Amendment tolerates none of that. In saying this much, we do not question the vital role pub- lic accommodations laws play in realizing the civil rights of all Americans. This Court has recognized that govern- ments in this country have a “compelling interest” in elimi- nating discrimination in places of public accommodation. Roberts v. United States Jaycees, U. S. , (); see also Hurley, U. S., at –. This Court has recognized, too, that public accommodations laws “vindi- cate the deprivation of personal dignity that surely accompa- nies denials of equal access to public establishments.” Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted); see also, e. g., Katzenbach v. McClung, U. S. (); Newman v. Piggie Park Enterprises, Inc., U. S. () (per curiam). Over time, governments in this country have expanded public accommodations laws in notable ways too. Statutes like Colorado's grow from nondiscrimination rules the com- mon law sometimes imposed on common carriers and places of traditional public accommodation like hotels and restau- rants. Dale, U. S., at –. Often, these enter- prises exercised something like monopoly power or hosted or transported others or their belongings much like bailees. See, e. g., Liverpool & Great Western Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., U. S. , (); Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph Co., U. S. , (). Over time, some States, Colorado included, have expanded the reach of these Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court nondiscrimination rules to cover virtually every place of business engaged in any sales to the public. Compare Colo. Sess. Laws pp. – (a short list of entities origi- nally bound by the State's public accommodations law) with Colo. Rev. Stat. § ––() (currently defning a public accommodation to include “any place of business engaged in any sales to the public”). Importantly, States have also expanded their laws to pro- hibit more forms of discrimination. Today, for example, ap- proximately half the States have laws like Colorado's that expressly prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual ori- entation. And, as we have recognized, this is entirely “un- exceptional.” Masterpiece Cakeshop, U. S., at –––. States may “protect gay persons, just as [they] can protect other classes of individuals, in acquiring whatever products and services they choose on the same terms and conditions as are offered to other members of the public. And there are no doubt innumerable goods and services that no one could argue implicate the First Amendment.” Ibid.; see also Hurley, U. S., at –; F. th, at (Tymkov- ich, C. J., dissenting). Consistent with all of this, Ms. Smith herself recognizes that Colorado and other States are gener- ally free to apply their public accommodations laws, includ- Besides Colorado, this includes Cal. Civ. Code Ann. § (West ); Conn. Gen. Stat. § a–d (); Del. Code Ann., Tit. , § (); Haw. Rev. Stat. § – (Cum. Supp. ); Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. , § /– (West ); Iowa Code § . (); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. , § (); Md. State Govt. Code Ann. § – (); Mass. Gen. Laws, ch. , § (); Mich. Comp. Laws Ann. § . (West ); Minn. Stat. § A. (); Nev. Rev. Stat. § . (); N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § –A: (); N. J. Stat. Ann. § :– (West ); N. M. Stat. Ann. § –– (); N. Y. Exec. Law Ann. § () (West ); Ore. Rev. Stat. § A. (); R. I. Gen. Laws § –– (); Vt. Stat. Ann., Tit. , § (a) (); Va. Code Ann. § .– (); Wash. Rev. Code § .. (); Wis. Stat. § . (–). See also Brief for Local Governments et al. as Amici Curiae (noting that many local govern- ments have enacted similar rules). Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court ing their provisions protecting gay persons, to a vast array of businesses. Reply Brief ; see Tr. of Oral Arg. –. At the same time, this Court has also recognized that no public accommodations law is immune from the demands of the Constitution. In particular, this Court has held, public accommodations statutes can sweep too broadly when de- ployed to compel speech. In Hurley, the Court commented favorably on Massachusetts's public accommodations law, but made plain it could not be “applied to expressive activity” to compel speech. U. S., at , . In Dale, the Court observed that New Jersey's public accommodations law had many lawful applications but held that it could “not justify such a severe intrusion on the Boy Scouts' rights to freedom of expressive association.” U. S., at . And, once more, what was true in those cases must hold true here. When a state public accommodations law and the Constitu- tion collide, there can be no question which must prevail. U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. . Nor is it any answer, as the Tenth Circuit seemed to sup- pose, that Ms. Smith's services are “unique.” F. th, at . In some sense, of course, her voice is unique; so is everyone's. But that hardly means a State may coopt an individual's voice for its own purposes. In Hurley, the vet- erans had an “enviable” outlet for speech; after all, their pa- rade was a notable and singular event. U. S., at , –. In Dale, the Boy Scouts offered what some might consider a unique experience. U. S., at –. But in both cases this Court held that the State could not use its public accommodations statute to deny speakers the right “to choose the content of [their] own message[s].” Hurley, U. S., at ; see Dale, U. S., at –. Were the rule otherwise, the better the artist, the fner the writer, the more unique his talent, the more easily his voice could be conscripted to disseminate the government's preferred mes- sages. That would not respect the First Amendment; more nearly, it would spell its demise. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court IV Before us, Colorado appears to distance itself from the Tenth Circuit's reasoning. Now, the State seems to ac- knowledge that the First Amendment does forbid it from co- ercing Ms. Smith to create websites endorsing same-sex mar- riage or expressing any other message with which she disagrees. See Brief for Respondents (disclaiming any interest in “interfer[ing] with [Ms. Smith's] choice to offer only websites of [her] own design”); see also Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae (conceding that “constitutional concerns” would arise if Colorado “require[d] petitione[r] to design a website” that she “would not create or convey for any client”). Instead, Colorado devotes most of its efforts to advancing an alternative theory for affrmance. The State's alternative theory runs this way. To comply with Colorado law, the State says, all Ms. Smith must do is repurpose websites she will create to celebrate marriages she does endorse for marriages she does not. She sells a product to some, the State reasons, so she must sell the same product to all. Brief for Respondents , . At bottom, Colorado's theory rests on a belief that the Tenth Circuit erred at the outset when it said this case implicates pure speech. Id., at . Instead, Colorado says, this case in- volves only the sale of an ordinary commercial product and any burden on Ms. Smith's speech is purely “incidental.” Id., at , –; see Tr. of Oral Arg. , –. On the State's telling, then, speech more or less vanishes from the picture—and, with it, any need for First Amendment scru- tiny. In places, the dissent seems to advance the same line of argument. Post, at – (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). This alternative theory, however, is diffcult to square with the parties' stipulations. As we have seen, the State has stipulated that Ms. Smith does not seek to sell an ordinary commercial good but intends to create “customized and tai- lored” speech for each couple. App. to Pet. for Cert. a, a. The State has stipulated that “[e]ach website Cre- Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court ative designs and creates is an original, customized creation for each client.” Id., at a. The State has stipulated, too, that Ms. Smith's wedding websites “will be expressive in na- ture, using text, graphics, and in some cases videos to cele- brate and promote the couple's wedding and unique love story.” Id., at a. As the case comes to us, then, Colo- rado seeks to compel just the sort of speech that it tacitly concedes lies beyond the reach of its powers. Of course, as the State emphasizes, Ms. Smith offers her speech for pay and does so through Creative LLC, a com- pany in which she is “the sole member-owner.” Id., at a; see also post, at (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (emphasizing Ms. Smith's “commercial” activity). But none of that makes a difference. Does anyone think a speechwriter loses his First Amendment right to choose for whom he works if he accepts money in return? Or that a visual artist who ac- cepts commissions from the public does the same? Many of the world's great works of literature and art were created with an expectation of compensation. Nor, this Court has held, do speakers shed their First Amendment protections by employing the corporate form to disseminate their speech. This fact underlies our cases involving everything from movie producers to book publishers to newspapers. See, e. g., Joseph Burstyn, Inc., U. S., at –; Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y. State Crime Victims Bd., U. S. , – (); Grosjean v. Amer- ican Press Co., U. S. , –, (). Colorado next urges us to focus on the reason Ms. Smith refuses to offer the speech it seeks to compel. She refuses, the State insists, because she objects to the “protected char- acteristics” of certain customers. Brief for Respondents ; see also post, at –, (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (re- citing the same argument). But once more, the parties' stip- ulations speak differently. The parties agree that Ms. Smith “will gladly create custom graphics and websites for gay, les- bian, or bisexual clients or for organizations run by gay, Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court lesbian, or bisexual persons so long as the custom graphics and websites” do not violate her beliefs. App. to Pet. for Cert. a. That is a condition, the parties acknowledge, Ms. Smith applies to “all customers.” Ibid. Ms. Smith stresses, too, that she has not and will not create expressions that defy any of her beliefs for any customer, whether that involves encouraging violence, demeaning another person, or promoting views inconsistent with her religious commit- ments. See Tr. of Oral Arg. –. Nor, in any event, do the First Amendment's protections belong only to speakers whose motives the government fnds worthy; its protections belong to all, including to speakers whose motives others may fnd misinformed or offensive. See Federal Election Comm'n v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., U. S. , – () (opinion of Roberts, C. J.) (observing that “a speaker's motivation is entirely irrelevant” (internal quota- tion marks omitted)); National Socialist Party of America v. Skokie, U. S. , – () (per curiam) (upholding free-speech rights of participants in a Nazi parade); Snyder, U. S., at – (same for protestors of a soldier's funeral). The dissent labels the distinction between status and message “amus- ing” and “embarrassing.” Post, at . But in doing so, the dissent ig- nores a fundamental feature of the Free Speech Clause. While it does not protect status-based discrimination unrelated to expression, generally it does protect a speaker's right to control her own message—even when we may disapprove of the speaker's motive or the message itself. The dissent's derision is no answer to any of this. It ignores, too, the fact that Colorado itself has, in other contexts, distinguished status-based discrimi- nation (forbidden) from the right of a speaker to control his own message (protected). See App. , , , –, , , . (Truth be told, even the dissent acknowledges “th[is] distinction” elsewhere in its opinion. Post, at , n. .) Nor is the distinction unusual in societies committed both to nondiscrimination rules and free expression. See, e. g., Lee v. Ashers Baking Co. Ltd., [] UKSC , p. (“The less favourable treatment was afforded to the message not to the man”). Does the dis- sent really fnd all that amusing and embarrassing? Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court Failing all else, Colorado suggests that this Court's deci- sion in FAIR supports affrmance. See also post, at – (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (making the same argument). In FAIR, a group of schools challenged a law requiring them, as a condition of accepting federal funds, to permit military recruiters space on campus on equal terms with other poten- tial employers. U. S., at –, . The only expres- sive activity required of the law schools, the Court found, involved the posting of logistical notices along these lines: “ `The U. S. Army recruiter will meet interested students in Room at a.m.' ” Id., at –. And, the Court rea- soned, compelled speech of this sort was “incidental” and a “far cry” from the speech at issue in our “leading First Amendment precedents [that] have established the principle that freedom of speech prohibits the government from telling people what they must say.” Ibid.; see also NIFLA, U. S., at –––. It is a far cry from this case too. To be sure, our cases have held that the government may sometimes “requir[e] the dissemination of purely factual and uncontroversial informa- tion,” particularly in the context of “commercial advertis- ing.” Hurley, U. S., at (internal quotation marks omitted); see also NIFLA, U. S., at –––; Riley v. Na- tional Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., U. S. , – (). But this case involves nothing like that. Here, Colorado does not seek to impose an incidental burden on speech. It seeks to force an individual to “utter what is not in [her] mind” about a question of political and religious sig- nifcance. Barnette, U. S., at . And that, FAIR reaffrmed, is something the First Amendment does not tol- erate. No government, FAIR recognized, may affect a “speaker's message” by “forc[ing]” her to “accommodate” other views, U. S., at ; no government may “ `alter' ” the “ `expressive content' ” of her message, id., at – (al- teration omitted); and no government may “interfer[e] with” her “desired message,” id., at . Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court V It is diffcult to read the dissent and conclude we are look- ing at the same case. Much of it focuses on the evolution of public accommodations laws, post, at –, and the strides gay Americans have made toward securing equal justice under law, post, at –. And, no doubt, there is much to applaud here. But none of this answers the question we face today: Can a State force someone who provides her own expressive services to abandon her conscience and speak its preferred message instead? When the dissent fnally gets around to that question— more than halfway into its opinion—it reimagines the facts of this case from top to bottom. The dissent claims that Colorado wishes to regulate Ms. Smith's “conduct,” not her speech. Post, at –. Forget Colorado's stipulation that Ms. Smith's activities are “expressive,” App. to Pet. for Cert. a, and the Tenth Circuit's conclusion that the State seeks to compel “pure speech,” F. th, at . The dis- sent chides us for deciding a pre-enforcement challenge. Post, at . But it ignores the Tenth Circuit's fnding that Ms. Smith faces a credible threat of sanctions unless she con- forms her views to the State's. F. th, at –. The dissent suggests (over and over again) that any burden on speech here is “incidental.” Post, at , –, –. All despite the Tenth Circuit's fnding that Colorado intends to force Ms. Smith to convey a message she does not believe with the “very purpose” of “[e]liminating . . . ideas” that dif- fer from its own. F. th, at . Nor does the dissent's reimagination end there. It claims that, “for the frst time in its history,” the Court “grants a business open to the public” a “right to refuse to serve mem- bers of a protected class.” Post, at ; see also post, at , Perplexingly, too, the dissent suggests that, by recounting the Tenth Circuit's conclusion on this score, we “misunderstan[d] this case” and “in- vo[ke] . . . Orwellian thought policing.” Post, at , n. . Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court n. , –. Never mind that we do no such thing and Colorado itself has stipulated Ms. Smith will (as CADA re- quires) “work with all people regardless of . . . sexual orien- tation.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a. Never mind, too, that it is the dissent that would have this Court do something truly novel by allowing a government to coerce an individual to speak contrary to her beliefs on a signifcant issue of per- sonal conviction, all in order to eliminate ideas that differ from its own. There is still more. The dissent asserts that we “sweep under the rug petitioners' challenge to CADA's Communica- tion Clause.” Post, at . This despite the fact the parties and the Tenth Circuit recognized that Ms. Smith's Communi- cation Clause challenge hinges on her Accommodation Clause challenge. (So much so that Colorado devoted less than two pages at the tail end of its brief to the Communication Clause and the Tenth Circuit afforded it just three paragraphs in its free-speech analysis. See Brief for Respondents –; F. th, at –.) The dissent even suggests that our decision today is akin to endorsing a “separate but equal” regime that would allow law frms to refuse women admis- sion into partnership, restaurants to deny service to Black Americans, or businesses seeking employees to post some- thing like a “White Applicants Only” sign. Post, at , – , –, , , and n. , –. Pure fction all. Why does the dissent try to refocus this case around the Communica- tion Clause? Perhaps because the moment one acknowledges the parties' stipulations—and the fact Colorado seeks to use its Accommodation Clause to compel speech in order to ensure conformity to its own views on a topic of major signifcance—the First Amendment implications become obvious. As does the fact that our case is nothing like a typical application of a public accommodations law requiring an ordinary, non-expressive business to serve all customers or consider all applicants. Our decision today does not concern—much less endorse—anything like the “ `straight couples only' ” notices the dissent conjures out of thin air. Post, at , n. . Nor do the parties discuss anything of the sort in their stipulations. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court In some places, the dissent gets so turned around about the facts that it opens fre on its own position. For instance: While stressing that a Colorado company cannot refuse “the full and equal enjoyment of [its] services” based on a custom- er's protected status, post, at , the dissent assures us that a company selling creative services “to the public” does have a right “to decide what messages to include or not to in- clude,” post, at . But if that is true, what are we even debating? Instead of addressing the parties' stipulations about the case actually before us, the dissent spends much of its time adrift on a sea of hypotheticals about photographers, statio- ners, and others, asking if they too provide expressive serv- ices covered by the First Amendment. Post, at –, –, –. But those cases are not this case. Doubtless, determining what qualifes as expressive activity protected by the First Amendment can sometimes raise dif- fcult questions. But this case presents no complication of that kind. The parties have stipulated that Ms. Smith seeks to engage in expressive activity. And the Tenth Circuit has recognized her services involve “pure speech.” See supra, at , . Nothing the dissent says can alter this—nor can it displace the First Amendment protections that follow. The dissent's treatment of precedent parallels its handling of the facts. Take its remarkable suggestion that a govern- ment forcing an individual to create speech on weighty issues with which she disagrees—all, as the Tenth Circuit found, with the goal of “[e]liminating” views it does not share, F. th, at —only “incidental[ly]” burdens First Amend- ment liberties. Post, at –. Far from embracing a no- tion like that, our cases have rejected it time after time— including in the context of public accommodations laws. See Parts II–IV, supra; FAIR, U. S., at – (no govern- ment may affect a “speaker's own message” by “forc[ing]” her to “accommodate” views she does not hold); Hurley, CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court U. S., at , (using a public accommodations law to com- pel parade organizers to include speech they did not believe was no mere “ `incidental' ” infringement on First Amend- ment rights); Dale, U. S., at (employing a public ac- commodations law to require the Boy Scouts to alter their admissions policies had more than “an incidental effect on protected speech”). When it fnally gets around to discussing these controlling precedents, the dissent offers a wholly unpersuasive attempt to distinguish them. The First Amendment protections fur- nished in Barnette, Hurley, and Dale, the dissent declares, were limited to schoolchildren and “nonproft[s],” and it is “dispiriting” to think they might also apply to Ms. Smith's “commercial” activity. Post, at –. But our prece- dents endorse nothing like the limits the dissent would project on them. Instead, as we have seen, the First Amendment ex- tends to all persons engaged in expressive conduct, including those who seek proft (such as speechwriters, artists, and website designers). See supra, at . If anything is truly dispiriting here, it is the dissent's failure to take seri- ously this Court's enduring commitment to protecting the The dissent observes that public accommodations laws may some- times touch on speech incidentally as they work to ensure ordinary, non- expressive goods and services are sold on equal terms. Cf. post, at – (citing Sorrell v. IMS Health Inc., U. S. (); Rumsfeld v. FAIR, U. S. (); United States v. O'Brien, U. S. ()). But as Hurley observed, there is nothing “incidental” about an infringe- ment on speech when a public accommodations law is applied “peculiar[ly]” to compel expressive activity. Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston, Inc., U. S. , (). The dis- sent notes that our case law has not sustained every First Amendment objection to an antidiscrimination rule, as with a law frm that sought to exclude women from partnership. Post, at – (citing Hishon v. King & Spalding, U. S. (); Roberts v. United States Jaycees, U. S. ()). But the dissent disregards Dale's holding that context matters and that very different considerations come into play when a law is used to force individuals to toe the government's preferred line when speaking (or associating to express themselves) on matters of signifcance. Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, U. S. , – (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court speech rights of all comers, no matter how controversial—or even repugnant—many may fnd the message at hand. Finally, the dissent comes out and says what it really means: Once Ms. Smith offers some speech, Colorado “would require [her] to create and sell speech, notwithstand- ing [her] sincere objection to doing so”—and the dissent would force her to comply with that demand. Post, at . Even as it does so, however, the dissent refuses to acknowl- edge where its reasoning leads. In a world like that, as Chief Judge Tymkovich highlighted, governments could force “an unwilling Muslim movie director to make a flm with a Zionist message,” they could compel “an atheist mu- ralist to accept a commission celebrating Evangelical zeal,” and they could require a gay website designer to create web- sites for a group advocating against same-sex marriage, so long as these speakers would accept commissions from the public with different messages. F. th, at (dissenting opinion). Perhaps the dissent fnds these possibilities un- troubling because it trusts state governments to coerce only “enlightened” speech. But if that is the calculation, it is a dangerous one indeed. The dissent is right about one thing—“[w]hat a difference” time can make. See post, at (internal quotation marks omitted). Eighty years ago in Barnette, this Court affrmed that “no offcial, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be Perhaps the dissent fnds these possibilities untroubling for another reason. It asserts that CADA does not apply to “[m]any flmmakers, vis- ual artists, and writers” because they do not “hold out” their services to the public. Post, at . But the dissent cites nothing to support its claim and instead, once more, fghts the facts. As we have seen, Colora- do's law today applies to “any place of business engaged in any sales to the public.” Colo. Rev. Stat. §––() (emphasis added); see also Part III, supra. And the dissent can hardly dispute that many artists and writers accept commissions from the public. Brief for Creative Pro- fessionals et al. as Amici Curiae –. Certainly, Colorado does not ad- vance anything like the dissent's argument; it calls any exemption to its law for “artists” and others who provide “custom” services “unworkable.” Brief for Respondents – (internal quotation marks omitted). Page Proof Pending Publication CREATIVE LLC v. ELENIS Opinion of the Court orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion.” U. S., at . The Court did so despite the fact that the speech rights it defended were deeply unpopu- lar; at the time, the world was at war and many thought respect for the fag and the pledge “essential for the welfare of the state.” Id., at – (Frankfurter, J., dissenting); see also id., at , (majority opinion). Fifty years ago, this Court protected the right of Nazis to march through a town home to many Holocaust survivors and along the way espouse ideas antithetical to those for which this Nation stands. See Skokie, U. S., at –; supra, at . Five years ago, in a case the dissenters highlight at the outset of their opinion, the Court stressed that “it is not . . . the role of the State or its offcials to prescribe what shall be offensive.” Masterpiece Cakeshop, U. S., at –––. And just days ago, Members of today's dissent joined in holding that the First Amendment restricts how States may prosecute stalkers de- spite the “harm[ful],” “low-value,” and “upsetting” nature of their speech. Counterman v. Colorado, U. S. , (); id., at – (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part and