Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of requires employ- ers to accommodate the religious practice of their employees by John A. Meiser and Douglas Laycock; for the Seventh-day Adventist Church in Canada et al. by Nicholas R. Reaves; for the Sikh Coalition et al. by Jonathan Z. Morris, Scott P. Dixler, and Jeremy B. Rosen; for the Thomas More Society et al. by Thomas Brejcha, Stephen M. Cramp- ton, Howard Slugh, and B. Tyler Brooks; for the Union of Orthodox Jew- ish Congregations of America by Eric Rassbach and Nathan J. Diament; for U. S. Sen. Ted Cruz et al. by Sarah E. Child; for Joseph B. Holland, Jr., by Robert P. George, Kent J. George, and Jeffrey A. Kimble; for John Kluge by John J. Bursch, Rory T. Gray, and Michael J. Cork; for Robert P. Roesser by Bruce N. Cameron and Raymond J. LaJeunesse, Jr.; for Asma T. Uddin et al. by Steven T. Collis, pro se; and for Physicians et al. by Erin Elizabeth Mersino and Richard Thompson. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Washington et al. by Robert W. Ferguson, Attorney General of Washing- ton, Noah G. Purcell, Solicitor General, Karl David Smith, Deputy Solici- tor General, and Brian J. Baker and Nicholas Ulrich, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Rob Bonta of California, Phil Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of Delaware, Anne E. Lopez of Hawaii, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Anthony G. Brown of Maryland, Andrea Joy Campbell of Massachusetts, Keith Ellison of Minnesota, and Charity R. Clark of Vermont; for Airlines for America by Anton Metlitsky, Robert A. Siegel, and Patricia N. Vercelli; for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Harold C. Becker, Matthew Ginsburg, and Andrew Lyubarsky; for the American Postal Workers Union, AFL–CIO, by Michael T. Anderson; for Americans United for Sep- aration of Church and State et al. by Joshua Matz, Carmen Iguina Gon- zález, Gregory R. Nevins, Alex J. Luchenitser, Bradley Girard, and Karen L. Loewy; for the Freedom from Religion Foundation by Elizabeth Cavell and Patrick Elliott; for the Local Government Legal Center et al. by F. An- drew Hessick, Richard A. Simpson, Amanda Karras, and Erich Eiselt; and for the National Rural Letter Carriers' Association et al. by Jacob Karabell, Michael Gan, Mark Gisler, Jean-Marc Favreau, and Keith E. Secular. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Founders' First Freedom, Inc., by Walter E. Carson and Michael D. Peabody; for the National Lawyers Association by Michael L. Foreman; for the Robertson Center for Consti- tutional Law by Michael Francisco and Bradley J. Lingo; for the Zionist Organization of America by Susan B. Tuchman; and for Jeffrey Podell et al. by Clifford A. Rieders. GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court unless doing so would impose an “undue hardship on the con- duct of the employer's business.” Stat. , as amended, U. S. C. §e(j). Based on a line in this Court's deci- sion in Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Hardison, U. S. , (), many lower courts, including the Third Circuit below, have interpreted “undue hardship” to mean any effort or cost that is “more than . . . de minimis.” In this case, however, both parties—the plaintiff-petitioner, Gerald Groff, and the defendant-respondent, the Postmaster General, rep- resented by the Solicitor General—agree that the de mini- mis reading of Hardison is a mistake. With the beneft of thorough briefng and oral argument, we today clarify what Title VII requires. I Gerald Groff is an Evangelical Christian who believes for religious reasons that Sunday should be devoted to worship and rest, not “secular labor” and the “transport[ation]” of worldly “goods.” App. . In , Groff began his em- ployment with the United States Postal Service (USPS), which has more than , employees. He became a Rural Carrier Associate, a job that required him to assist regular carriers in the delivery of mail. When he took the position, it generally did not involve Sunday work. But within a few years, that changed. In , USPS entered into an agreement with Amazon to begin facilitating Sunday deliveries, and in , USPS signed a memorandum of un- derstanding with the relevant union (the National Rural Let- ter Carriers' Association) that set out how Sunday and holi- day parcel delivery would be handled. During a -month peak season, each post offce would use its own staff to de- liver packages. At all other times, Sunday and holiday de- liveries would be carried out by employees (including Rural Carrier Associates like Groff) working from a “regional hub.” For Quarryville, Pennsylvania, where Groff was orig- inally stationed, the regional hub was the Lancaster Annex. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court The memorandum specifes the order in which USPS em- ployees are to be called on for Sunday work outside the peak season. First in line are each hub's “Assistant Rural Carri- ers”—part-time employees who are assigned to the hub and cover only Sundays and holidays. Second are any volun- teers from the geographic area, who are assigned on a rotat- ing basis. And third are all other carriers, who are com- pelled to do the work on a rotating basis. Groff fell into this third category, and after the memorandum of understanding was adopted, he was told that he would be required to work on Sunday. He then sought and received a transfer to Holt- wood, a small rural USPS station that had only seven em- ployees and that, at the time, did not make Sunday deliver- ies. But in March , Amazon deliveries began there as well. With Groff unwilling to work on Sundays, USPS made other arrangements. During the peak season, Sunday deliv- eries that would have otherwise been performed by Groff were carried out by the rest of the Holtwood staff, including the postmaster, whose job ordinarily does not involve deliv- ering mail. During other months, Groff's Sunday assign- ments were redistributed to other carriers assigned to the regional hub. Throughout this time, Groff continued to re- ceive “progressive discipline” for failing to work on Sundays. F. th , (CA ). Finally, in January , he resigned. Other employees complained about the consequences of Groff's ab- sences. While the parties dispute some of the details, it appears uncon- tested that at least one employee fled a grievance asserting a confict with his contractual rights. After disputing any confict with contract rights, USPS eventually settled that claim, with the settlement reaffrming USPS's commitment to the memorandum of understanding. App. , –. Groff represents that his resignation was in light of expected termina- tion, and the District Court found “a genuine issue of material fact” fore- closed summary judgment as to whether Groff suffered an adverse em- GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court A few months later, Groff sued under Title VII, asserting that USPS could have accommodated his Sunday Sabbath practice “without undue hardship on the conduct of [USPS's] business.” U. S. C. § e( j). The District Court granted summary judgment to USPS, WL (ED Pa., Apr. , ), and the Third Circuit affrmed. The panel majority felt that it was “bound by [the] ruling” in Hardison, which it construed to mean “that requiring an employer `to bear more than a de minimis cost' to provide a religious ac- commodation is an undue hardship.” F. th, at , n. (quoting U. S., at ). Under Circuit precedent, the panel observed, this was “not a diffcult threshold to pass,” F. th, at (internal quotation marks omitted), and it held that this low standard was met in this case. Exempt- ing Groff from Sunday work, the panel found, had “imposed on his coworkers, disrupted the workplace and workfow, and diminished employee morale.” Id., at . Judge Hardi- man dissented, concluding that adverse “effects on USPS employees in Lancaster or Holtwood” did not alone suffce to show the needed hardship “on the employer's business.” Id., at (emphasis in original). We granted Groff's ensuing petition for a writ of certiorari. U. S. ––– (). II Because this case presents our frst opportunity in nearly years to explain the contours of Hardison, we begin by recounting the legal backdrop to that case, including the development of the Title VII provision barring religious discrimination and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's (EEOC's) regulations and guidance regarding that prohibition. We then summarize how the Hardison case progressed to fnal decision, and fnally, we discuss ployment action. WL , * (ED Pa., Apr. , ). The Government does not dispute the point in this Court. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court how courts and the EEOC have understood its signifcance. This background helps to explain the clarifcations we offer today. A Since its passage, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of has made it unlawful for covered employers “to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to dis- criminate against any individual with respect to his compen- sation, terms, conditions, or privileges [of] employment, be- cause of such individual's . . . religion.” U. S. C. § e– (a)() ( ed.). As originally enacted, Title VII did not spell out what it meant by discrimination “because of . . . religion,” but shortly after the statute's passage, the EEOC interpreted that provision to mean that employers were sometimes required to “accommodate” the “reasonable reli- gious needs of employees.” CFR § .(a)() (). After some tinkering, the EEOC settled on a formulation that obligated employers “to make reasonable accommoda- tions to the religious needs of employees” whenever that would not work an “undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's business.” CFR § . (). Between and , the EEOC elaborated on its un- derstanding of “undue hardship” in a “long line of decisions” addressing a variety of policies. Hardison, U. S., at (Marshall, J., dissenting); see Brief for General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists as Amicus Curiae – (collecting decisions). Those decisions addressed many accommodation issues that still arise frequently today, including the wearing of religious garb and time off from work to attend to reli- gious obligations. See, e. g., EEOC Dec. No. –, WL , * (Dec. , ) (no undue hardship in permitting nurse to wear religious headscarf). See EEOC Dec. No. –, WL , *–* (Nov. , ) (no “undue hardship” or “unreasonable burde[n]” for employer to train co- worker to cover -week religious absence); EEOC Dec. No. –, Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court EEOC decisions did not settle the question of undue hard- ship. In , the Sixth Circuit held (in a Sabbath case) that Title VII as then written did not require an employer “to accede to or accommodate” religious practice because that “would raise grave” Establishment Clause questions. Dewey v. Reynolds Metals Co., F. d , . This Court granted certiorari, U. S. , but then affrmed by an evenly divided vote, U. S. (). Responding to Dewey and another decision rejecting any duty to accommodate an employee's observance of the Sab- bath, Congress amended Title VII in . Hardison, U. S., at –; id., at – (Marshall, J., dissenting). Tracking the EEOC's regulatory language, Congress pro- vided that “[t]he term `religion' includes all aspects of reli- gious observance and practice, as well as belief, unless an employer demonstrates that he is unable to reasonably ac- commodate to an employee's or prospective employee's reli- gious observance or practice without undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's business.” U. S. C. §e(j) ( ed., Supp. II). WL , *–* (Mar. , ) (manufacturing employer asked to accommo- date sundown-to-sundown Sabbath observance did not carry “burden . . . to demonstrate undue hardship” where it did not address “whether an- other employee could be trained to substitute for the Charging Party dur- ing Sabbath days, or whether already qualifed personnel ha[d] been in- vited to work a double shift”); EEOC Dec. No. –, WL , * (Mar. , ) (no “undue `hardship' ” in having other employees take on a few more on-call Saturdays per year); see also EEOC Dec. No. – , WL , *–* (Aug. , ) (employer could not deny em- ployee all Sunday “overtime opportunities” on basis of employee's re- ligious inability to work Saturday, where others not working the full weekend had been accommodated, notwithstanding employer's claim of “considerable expense”); EEOC Dec. No. –, WL , * (Aug. , ) (no obligation to accommodate seasonal employee unavail- able for Saturday work, where employer showed both “no available pool of qualifed employees” to substitute and a “practical impossibility of obtaining and training an employee” to cover one day a week for six weeks). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court B The Hardison case concerned a dispute that arose during the interval between the issuance of the EEOC's “undue hardship” regulation and the amendment to Title VII. In , Larry Hardison was hired as a clerk at the Stores Department in the Kansas City base of Trans World Airlines (TWA). The Stores Department was responsible for provid- ing parts needed to repair and maintain aircraft. Hardison v. Trans World Airlines, F. Supp. , (WD Mo. ). It played an “essential role” and operated “ hours per day, days per year.” Hardison, U. S., at . After taking this job, Hardison underwent a religious con- version. He began to observe the Sabbath by absenting himself from work from sunset on Friday to sunset on Satur- day, and this conficted with his work schedule. The prob- lem was solved for a time when Hardison, who worked in Building , switched to the night shift, but it resurfaced when he sought and obtained a transfer to the day shift in Building so that he could spend evenings with his wife. F. Supp., at . In that new building, he did not have enough seniority to avoid work during his Sabbath. At- tempts at accommodation failed, and he was eventually “dis- charged on grounds of insubordination.” U. S., at . Hardison sued TWA and his union, the International Asso- ciation of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM). The Eighth Circuit found that reasonable accommodations were available, and it rejected the defendants' Establishment Clause arguments. Hardison v. Trans World Airlines, Inc., F. d , – (). Both TWA and IAM then fled petitions for certiorari, with TWA's lead petition asking this Court to decide whether the amendment of Title VII violated the Establishment Clause as applied in the decision below, particularly insofar “Labor organization[s]” themselves were and are bound by Title VII's nondiscrimination rules. U. S. C. § e–(c) ( ed.). Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court as that decision had approved an accommodation that alleg- edly overrode seniority rights granted by the relevant collec- tive bargaining agreement. The Court granted both peti- tions. U. S. (). When the Court took that action, all counsel had good rea- son to expect that the Establishment Clause would fgure prominently in the Court's analysis. As noted above, in June , the Court, by an equally divided vote, had af- frmed the Sixth Circuit's decision in Dewey, which had heav- ily relied on Establishment Clause avoidance to reject the interpretation of Title VII set out in the EEOC's reasonable- accommodation guidelines. Just over three weeks later, the Court had handed down its (now abrogated) decision in Lemon v. Kurtzman, U. S. (), which adopted a test under which any law whose “principal or primary effect” “was to advance religion” was unconstitutional. Id., at – . Because it could be argued that granting a special ac- commodation to a religious practice had just such a purpose and effect, some thought that Lemon posed a serious prob- lem for the amendment of Title VII. And shortly be- fore review was granted in Hardison, the Court had an- nounced that the Justices were evenly divided in a case that challenged the amendment as a violation of the Estab- lishment Clause. Parker Seal Co. v. Cummins, U. S. () (per curiam). Against this backdrop, both TWA and IAM challenged the constitutionality of requiring any accommodation for reli- gious practice. The Summary of Argument in TWA's brief began with this categorical assertion: “The religious accom- modation requirement of Title VII violates the Establish- ment Clause of the First Amendment.” Brief for Petitioner TWA, O. T. , No. –, p. . Applying the three- part Lemon test, TWA argued that any such accommodation See Pet. for Cert. in Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Hardison, O. T. , No. –, pp. –, –. See Kennedy v. Bremerton School Dist., U. S. –––, ––– (). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court has the primary purpose and effect of advancing religion and entails “pervasive” government “entanglement . . . in reli- gious issues.” Brief for Petitioner TWA, No. –, at . The union's brief made a similar argument, Brief for Peti- tioner IAM, O. T. , No. –, pp. –, –, but stressed the special status of seniority rights under Title VII, id., at –. Despite the prominence of the Establishment Clause in the briefs submitted by the parties and their amici, constitu- tional concerns played no on-stage role in the Court's opin- ion, which focused instead on seniority rights. The opinion See, e. g., Brief for Chrysler Corporation as Amicus Curiae – (ar- guing an Establishment Clause violation), and Brief for State of Michigan as Amicus Curiae – (arguing no confict with the Establishment Clause), in Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Hardison, O. T. , No. – etc. The background summarized above and the patent clash between the ordinary meaning of “undue hardship” and “more than . . . de minimis” led some to interpret the decision to rest on Establishment Clause concerns. Justice Marshall observed in his Hardison dissent that the majority opin- ion “ha[d] the singular advantage of making consideration of petitioners' constitutional challenge unnecessary.” U. S., at . A few courts as- sumed that Hardison actually was an Establishment Clause decision. See, e. g., Gibson v. Missouri Pacifc R. Co., F. Supp. , – (ED Ark. ) (concluding that requiring an employer to “incur greater than de minimis costs” related to accommodating a Sabbath “would therefore violate the establishment clause”); see also Massachusetts Bay Transp. Auth. v. Massachusetts Comm'n Against Discrimination, Mass. , –, and n. , N. E. d , –, and n. () (construing state law narrowly on premise that Hardison might state outer constitutional bounds). Some constitutional scholars also suggested that Hardison must have been based on constitutional avoidance. See, e. g., P. Karlan & G. Rutherglen, Disabilities, Discrimination, and Reasonable Accommodation, Duke L. J. , – (); M. McConnell, Accommodation of Religion: An Update and a Response to the Critics, Geo. Wash. L. Rev. , (); cf. Small v. Memphis Light, Gas & Water, F. d , (CA ) (Thapar, J., concurring). In doing so, some have pointed to Hardi- son's passing reference to a need to avoid “unequal treatment of employ- ees on the basis of their religion.” U. S., at . But the Court later clarifed that “Title VII does not demand mere neutrality with regard to GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court stated that “the principal issue on which TWA and the union came to this Court” was whether Title VII “require[s] an employer and a union who have agreed on a seniority system to deprive senior employees of their seniority rights in order to accommodate a junior employee's religious practices.” U. S., at , and n. . The Court held that Title VII imposed no such requirement. Ibid. This conclusion, the Court found, was “supported by the fact that seniority sys- tems are afforded special treatment under Title VII itself.” Id., at . It noted that Title VII expressly provides special protection for “ `bona fde seniority . . . system[s],' ” id., at – (quoting U. S. C. § e–(h)), and it cited precedent reading the statute “ `to make clear that the routine applica- tion of a bona fde seniority system [is] not . . . unlawful under Title VII,' ” U. S., at (quoting Teamsters v. United States, U. S. , ()). Invoking these au- thorities, the Court found that the statute did not require an accommodation that involuntarily deprived employees of seniority rights. U. S., at . Applying this interpretation of Title VII and disagreeing with the Eighth Circuit's evaluation of the factual record, the Court identifed no way in which TWA, without violating seniority rights, could have feasibly accommodated Hardi- son's request for an exemption from work on his Sabbath. The Court found that not enough co-workers were willing to take Hardison's shift voluntarily, that compelling them to do so would have violated their seniority rights, and that leav- ing the Stores Department short-handed would have ad- versely affected its “essential” mission. Id., at , . religious practices” but instead “gives them favored treatment” in order to ensure religious persons' full participation in the workforce. EEOC v. Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc., U. S. , (). We do not understand Groff to challenge the continued vitality of Har- dison's core holding on its “principal issue” (bracketing his disputes that the memorandum of understanding set forth a seniority system). U. S., at , and n. . Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court The Court also rejected two other options offered in Jus- tice Marshall's dissent: () paying other workers overtime wages to induce them to work on Saturdays and making up for that increased cost by requiring Hardison to work over- time for regular wages at other times and () forcing TWA to pay overtime for Saturday work for three months, after which, the dissent thought, Hardison could transfer back to the night shift in Building . The Court dismissed both of these options as not “feasible,” id., at , n. , but it pro- vided no explanation for its evaluation of the frst. In dis- sent, Justice Marshall suggested one possible reason: that the collective bargaining agreement might have disallowed Hardison's working overtime for regular wages. Id., at (dissenting opinion). But the majority did not embrace that explanation. As for the second, the Court disputed the dissent's conclu- sion that Hardison, if he moved back to Building , would have had enough seniority to choose to work the night shift. Id., at , n. . That latter disagreement was key. The dissent thought that Hardison could have resumed the night shift in Building after just three months, and it therefore calculated what it would have cost TWA to pay other work- ers' overtime wages on Saturdays for that fnite period of time. According to that calculation, TWA's added expense for three months would have been $ (about $, in dollars). Id., at , n. . But the Court doubted that Har- dison could have regained the seniority rights he had en- joyed in Building prior to his transfer, and if that were true, TWA would have been required to pay other workers overtime for Saturday work indefnitely. Even under Jus- tice Marshall's math, that would have worked out to $ per year at the time, or roughly $, per year today. The dissent appears to have drawn its estimate from Hardison's daily rate at the time of termination ($./hour) and deposition testimony on typical overtime rates and shift lengths. See App. in No. – etc., pp. , . GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court In the briefs and at argument, little space was devoted to the question of determining when increased costs amount to an “undue hardship” under the statute, but a single, but oft- quoted, sentence in the opinion of the Court, if taken liter- ally, suggested that even a pittance might be too much for an employer to be forced to endure. The line read as fol- lows: “To require TWA to bear more than a de minimis cost in order to give Hardison Saturdays off is an undue hard- ship.” Id., at . Although this line would later be viewed by many lower courts as the authoritative interpretation of the statutory term “undue hardship,” it is doubtful that it was meant to take on that large role. In responding to Justice Marshall's dissent, the Court described the governing standard quite differently, stating three times that an accommodation is not required when it entails “substantial” “costs” or “expendi- tures.” Id., at , n. . This formulation suggests that an employer may be required to bear costs and make expendi- tures that are not “substantial.” Of course, there is a big difference between costs and expenditures that are not “sub- stantial” and those that are “de minimis,” which is to say, so “very small or trifing” that they are not even worth notic- ing. Black's Law Dictionary (th ed. ). The Court's response to Justice Marshall's estimate of the extra costs that TWA would have been required to foot is also telling. The majority did not argue that Justice Mar- shall's math produced considerably “more than a de minimis cost” (as it certainly did). Instead, the Court responded that Justice Marshall's calculation involved assumptions that were not “feasible under the circumstances” and would have produced a different confict with “the seniority rights of other employees.” U. S., at , n. ; see Brief for United States , n. (noting that Hardison “specifcally re- jected” the dissent's calculations and that it is “wrong to as- sert” that Hardison held that a $ cost was an undue hardship). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Ultimately, then, it is not clear that any of the possible accommodations would have actually solved Hardison's prob- lem without transgressing seniority rights. The Hardison Court was very clear that those rights were off-limits. Its guidance on “undue hardship” in situations not involving se- niority rights is much less clear. C Even though Hardison's reference to “de minimis” was undercut by conficting language and was feeting in compari- son to its discussion of the “principal issue” of seniority rights, lower courts have latched on to “de minimis” as the governing standard. To be sure, as the Solicitor General notes, some lower courts have understood that the protection for religious ad- herents is greater than “more than . . . de minimis” might suggest when read in isolation. But a bevy of diverse reli- gious organizations has told this Court that the de minimis test has blessed the denial of even minor accommodation in many cases, making it harder for members of minority faiths to enter the job market. See, e. g., Brief for the Sikh Coali- tion et al. as Amici Curiae , – (“the de minimis stand- ard eliminates any meaningful mandate to accommodate Sikh practices in the workplace” and “emboldens employers to deny reasonable accommodation requests”); Brief for Council on American-Islamic Relations as Amicus Curiae (Muslim women wearing religiously mandated attire “have lost em- ployment opportunities” and have been excluded from “criti- cal public institutions like public schools, law enforcement agencies, and youth rehabilitation centers”); Brief for Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America as Amicus Curiae – (because the “de minimis cost” test “can be satisfed in nearly any circumstance,” “Orthodox Jews once again [are] left at the mercy of their employers' good graces”); Brief for Seventh-day Adventist Church in Canada et al. as Amici Curiae (joint brief of Sabbatarian faiths Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court arguing that Sabbath accommodation under the de minimis standard is left to “their employers' and coworkers' goodwill”). The EEOC has also accepted Hardison as prescribing a “ `more than a de minimis cost' ” test, CFR § .(e)() (), but has tried in some ways to soften its impact. It has specifcally cautioned (as has the Solicitor General in this case) against extending the phrase to cover such things as the “administrative costs” involved in reworking schedules, the “infrequent” or temporary “payment of premium wages for a substitute,” and “voluntary substitutes and swaps” when they are not contrary to a “bona fde seniority system.” §§ .(e)(), (). Nevertheless, some courts have rejected even the EEOC's gloss on “de minimis.” And in other cases, courts have rejected accommodations that the EEOC's guidelines con- sider to be ordinarily required, such as the relaxation of dress codes and coverage for occasional absences. For example, two years ago, the Seventh Circuit told the EEOC that it would be an undue hardship on Wal-Mart (the Nation's largest private employer, with annual profts of over $ billion) to be required to facili- tate voluntary shift-trading to accommodate a prospective assistant man- ager's observance of the Sabbath. EEOC v. Walmart Stores East, L. P., F. d , – (). See Walmart Inc., Wall Street Journal Markets (June , ). See, e. g., Wagner v. Saint Joseph's/Candler Health System, Inc., WL , *–* (SD Ga., Mar. , ) (Orthodox Jew fred for taking off for High Holy Days); Camara v. Epps Air Serv., Inc., F. Supp. d , , – (ND Ga., ) (Muslim woman who wore a hijab fred because the sight of her might harm the business in light of “negative stereotypes and perceptions about Muslims”); El-Amin v. First Transit, Inc., WL , *–* (SD Ohio, May , ) (Muslim employee terminated where religious services conficted with “two hours” of train- ing a week during a month of daily training); EEOC v. Sambo's of Ga., Inc., F. Supp. , (ND Ga., ) (hiring a Sikh man as a restaurant manager would be an undue hardship because his beard would have con- ficted with “customer preference”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Members of this Court have warned that, if the de mini- mis rule represents the holding of Hardison, the decision might have to be reconsidered. Small v. Memphis Light, Gas & Water, U. S. ––– () (Gorsuch, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari); Patterson v. Walgreen Co., U. S. ––– () (Alito, J., concurring in denial of certiorari). Four years ago, the Solicitor General—joined on its brief by the EEOC—likewise took that view. Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Patterson v. Walgreen Co., O. T. , No. –, p. (“Contrary to Hardison, therefore, an `undue hardship' is not best interpreted to mean `more than a de minimis cost' ”). Today, the Solicitor General disavows its prior position that Hardison should be overruled—but only on the under- standing that Hardison does not compel courts to read the “more than de minimis” standard “literally” or in a manner that undermines Hardison's references to “substantial” cost. Tr. of Oral Arg. . With the beneft of compre- hensive briefng and oral argument, we agree. At the certiorari stage, the Government argued against review by noting that Government employees receive “at least as much protection for religious-accommodation claims [under the Religious Freedom Resto- ration Act (RFRA)] as [under] any interpretation of Title VII.” Brief in Opposition . Courts have not always agreed on how RFRA's cause of action—which does not rely on employment status—interacts with Title VII's cause of action, and the Third Circuit has treated Title VII as exclu- sively governing at least some employment-related claims brought by Gov- ernment employees. Compare Francis v. Mineta, F. d , (CA ), with Tagore v. United States, F. d , – (CA ) (federal employee's RFRA claim could proceed even though de minimis standard foreclosed Title VII claim). Because Groff did not bring a RFRA claim, we need not resolve today whether the Government is cor- rect that RFRA claims arising out of federal employment are not displaced by Title VII. In addition to suggesting that Hardison be revisited, some Justices have questioned whether Hardison (which addresses the pre- EEOC Guidelines) binds courts interpreting the current version of Title VII. See Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court III We hold that showing “more than a de minimis cost,” as that phrase is used in common parlance, does not suffce to establish “undue hardship” under Title VII. Hardison can- not be reduced to that one phrase. In describing an employ- er's “undue hardship” defense, Hardison referred repeatedly to “substantial” burdens, and that formulation better ex- plains the decision. We therefore, like the parties, under- stand Hardison to mean that “undue hardship” is shown when a burden is substantial in the overall context of an employer's business. See Tr. of Oral Arg. – (argument of Solicitor General). This fact-specifc inquiry comports with both Hardison and the meaning of “undue hardship” in ordinary speech. A As we have explained, we do not write on a blank slate in determining what an employer must prove to defend a denial of a religious accommodation, but we think it reasonable to begin with Title VII's text. After all, as we have stressed over and over again in recent years, statutory interpretation must “begi[n] with,” and ultimately heed, what a statute ac- tually says. National Assn. of Mfrs. v. Department of De- fense, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted); see Bartenwerfer v. Buckley, U. S. , (); Intel Corp. Investment Policy Comm. v. Sulyma, U. S. –––, ––– – –––, ––– (). Here, the key statutory term is “undue hardship.” In common parlance, a “hardship” is, at a minimum, “something hard to bear.” Random House Dic- tionary of the English Language () (Random House). Other defnitions go further. See, e. g., Webster's Third Abercrombie, U. S., at , n. (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dis- senting in part). As explained below, because we—like the Solicitor Gen- eral—construe Hardison as consistent with the ordinary meaning of “undue hardship,” we need not reconcile any divergence between Hardi- son and the statutory text. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court New International Dictionary () (Webster's Third) (“something that causes or entails suffering or privation”); American Heritage Dictionary () (American Heri- tage) (“[e]xtreme privation; adversity; suffering”); Black's Law Dictionary, at (“privation, suffering, adversity”). But under any defnition, a hardship is more severe than a mere burden. So even if Title VII said only that an em- ployer need not be made to suffer a “hardship,” an employer could not escape liability simply by showing that an accom- modation would impose some sort of additional costs. Those costs would have to rise to the level of hardship, and adding the modifer “undue” means that the requisite burden, priva- tion, or adversity must rise to an “excessive” or “unjustif- able” level. Random House ; see, e. g., Webster's Third (“inappropriate,” “unsuited,” or “exceeding or violating propriety or ftness”); American Heritage (“excessive”). The Government agrees, noting that “ `undue hardship means something greater than hardship.' ” Brief for United States ; see id., at (arguing that “accommodations should be assessed while `keep[ing] in mind both words in the key phrase of the actual statutory text: “undue” and “hardship” ' ” (quoting Adeyeye v. Heartland Sweeteners, LLC, F. d , (CA ))). When “undue hardship” is understood in this way, it means something very different from a burden that is merely more than de minimis, i. e., something that is “very small or tri- fing.” Black's Law Dictionary, at . So considering or- dinary meaning while taking Hardison as a given, we are pointed toward something closer to Hardison's references to “substantial additional costs” or “substantial expenditures.” U. S., at , n. . Similarly, while we do not rely on the pre- EEOC deci- sions described above to defne the term, we do observe that these decisions often found that accommodations that en- tailed substantial costs were required. See supra, at , nn. –. Nothing in this history plausibly suggests that Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court “undue hardship” in Title VII should be read to mean any- thing less than its meaning in ordinary use. Cf. George v. McDonough, U. S. –––, ––– () (a “robust regulatory backdrop” can “fl[l] in the details” of a statutory scheme's use of a specifc term). In short, no factor discussed by the parties—the ordinary meaning of “undue hardship,” the EEOC guidelines that Hardison concluded that the amendment “ `ratifed,' ” U. S., at , n. (internal quotation marks omitted), the use of that term by the EEOC prior to those amendments, and the common use of that term in other statutes—supports reducing Hardison to its “more than a de minimis cost” line. See Brief for United States (arguing that “the Court could emphasize that Hardison's language does not displace the statutory standard”). B In this case, both parties agree that the “de minimis” test is not right, but they differ slightly in the alternative lan- guage they prefer. Groff likes the phrase “signifcant diff- culty or expense.” Brief for Petitioner ; Reply Brief . The Government, disavowing its prior position that Title VII's text requires overruling Hardison, points us to Hardi- son's repeated references to “substantial expenditures” or “substantial additional costs.” Brief for United States – (citing U. S., at –, and n. ); see Brief for United States . We think it is enough to say that an employer must show that the burden of granting an accommodation would result in substantial increased costs in relation to the conduct of its particular business. Hardison, U. S., at , n. . What matters more than a favored synonym for “undue hardship” (which is the actual text) is that courts must apply the test in a manner that takes into account all relevant fac- tors in the case at hand, including the particular accommoda- tions at issue and their practical impact in light of the nature, Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court “size and operating cost of [an] employer.” Brief for United States (internal quotation marks omitted). C The main difference between the parties lies in the further steps they would ask us to take in elaborating upon their standards. Groff would not simply borrow the phrase “sig- nifcant diffculty or expense” from the Americans with Disa- bilities Act (ADA) but would have us instruct lower courts to “draw upon decades of ADA caselaw.” Reply Brief . The Government, on the other hand, requests that we opine that the EEOC's construction of Hardison has been basically correct. Brief for United States . Both of these suggestions go too far. We have no reserva- tions in saying that a good deal of the EEOC's guidance in this area is sensible and will, in all likelihood, be unaffected by our clarifying decision today. After all, as a public advo- cate for employee rights, much of the EEOC's guidance has focused on what should be accommodated. Accordingly, to- day's clarifcation may prompt little, if any, change in the agency's guidance explaining why no undue hardship is im- posed by temporary costs, voluntary shift swapping, occa- sional shift swapping, or administrative costs. See CFR § .(d). But it would not be prudent to ratify in toto a body of EEOC interpretation that has not had the beneft of the clarifcation we adopt today. What is most important is that “undue hardship” in Title VII means what it says, and courts should resolve whether a hardship would be substan- tial in the context of an employer's business in the common- sense manner that it would use in applying any such test. D The erroneous de minimis interpretation of Hardison may have had the effect of leading courts to pay insuffcient atten- tion to what the actual text of Title VII means with regard Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Opinion of the Court to several recurring issues. Since we are now brushing away that mistaken view of Hardison's holding, clarifcation of some of those issues—in line with the parties' agreement in this case—is in order. First, on the second question presented, both parties agree that the language of Title VII requires an assessment of a possible accommodation's effect on “the conduct of the em- ployer's business.” U. S. C. §e(j); see F. th, at – (Hardiman, J., dissenting). As the Solicitor General put it, not all “impacts on coworkers . . . are relevant,” but only “coworker impacts” that go on to “affec[t] the conduct of the business.” Tr. of Oral Arg. –. So an accom- modation's effect on co-workers may have ramifcations for the conduct of the employer's business, but a court cannot stop its analysis without examining whether that further log- ical step is shown in a particular case. On this point, the Solicitor General took pains to clarify that some evidence that occasionally is used to show “impacts” on co-workers is “off the table” for consideration. Id., at . Specifcally, a co-worker's dislike of “religious practice and expression in the workplace” or “the mere fact [of] an accommodation” is not “cognizable to factor into the undue hardship inquiry.” Id., at –. To the extent that this was not previously clear, we agree. An employer who fails to provide an accommodation has a defense only if the hardship is “undue,” and a hardship that is attributa- ble to employee animosity to a particular religion, to religion in general, or to the very notion of accommodating religious practice cannot be considered “undue.” If bias or hostil- ity to a religious practice or a religious accommodation pro- vided a defense to a reasonable accommodation claim, Title VII would be at war with itself. See id., at (argument of Solicitor General) (such an approach would be “giving effect to religious hostility”); contra, EEOC v. Sambo's of Georgia, Inc., F. Supp. , (ND Ga. ) (con- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court sidering as hardship “[a]dverse customer reaction” from “a simple aversion to, or discomfort in dealing with, bearded people”). Second, as the Solicitor General's authorities underscore, Title VII requires that an employer reasonably accommodate an employee's practice of religion, not merely that it assess the reasonableness of a particular possible accommodation or accommodations. See Adeyeye, F. d, at ; see also Brief for United States , , . This distinction matters. Faced with an accommodation request like Groff's, it would not be enough for an employer to conclude that forcing other employees to work overtime would constitute an undue hard- ship. Consideration of other options, such as voluntary shift swapping, would also be necessary. IV Having clarifed the Title VII undue-hardship standard, we think it appropriate to leave the context-specifc applica- tion of that clarifed standard to the lower courts in the frst instance. The Third Circuit assumed that Hardison pre- scribed a “more than a de minimis cost” test, F. th, at , and this may have led the court to dismiss a number of possible accommodations, including those involving the cost of incentive pay, or the administrative costs of coordination with other nearby stations with a broader set of employees. Without foreclosing the possibility that USPS will prevail, we think it appropriate to leave it to the lower courts to apply our clarifed context-specifc standard, and to decide whether any further factual development is needed. * * * The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered. Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Sotomayor, J., concurring Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Jackson joins, concurring. As both parties here agree, the phrase “more than a de minimis cost” from Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Hardison, U. S. , (), was loose language. An employer violates Title VII if it fails “to reasonably accommodate” an employee's religious observance or practice, unless the em- ployer demonstrates that accommodation would result in “undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's business.” U. S. C. §e(j). The statutory standard is “undue hardship,” not trivial cost. Hardison, however, cannot be reduced to its “de minimis” language. Instead, that case must be understood in light of its facts and the Court's reasoning. The Hardison Court concluded that the plaintiff's proposed accommodation would have imposed an undue hardship on the conduct of the em- ployer's business because the accommodation would have re- quired the employer either to deprive other employees of their seniority rights under a collective-bargaining agree- ment, or to incur substantial additional costs in the form of lost effciency or higher wages. U. S., at –, –, and n. . The Equal Employment Opportunity Commis- sion has interpreted Title VII's undue-hardship standard in this way for seven consecutive Presidential administrations, from President Reagan to President Biden. See CFR § .(e) () (citing Hardison, U. S., at , ). Petitioner Gerald Groff asks this Court to overrule Hardi- son and to replace it with a “signifcant diffculty or expense” standard. Brief for Petitioner –. The Court does not do so. That is a wise choice because stare decisis has “en- hanced force” in statutory cases. Kimble v. Marvel Enter- tainment, LLC, U. S. , (). Congress is free to revise this Court's statutory interpretations. The Court's respect for Congress's decision not to intervene pro- motes the separation of powers by requiring interested par- ties to resort to the legislative rather than the judicial proc- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Sotomayor, J., concurring ess to achieve their policy goals. This justifcation for statutory stare decisis is especially strong here because “Congress has spurned multiple opportunities to reverse [Hardison]—openings as frequent and clear as this Court ever sees.” Id., at –. Moreover, in the decades since Hardison was decided, Congress has revised Title VII multiple times in response to other decisions of this Court, yet never in response to Hardison. See Kimble, U. S., at . Groff also asks the Court to decide that Title VII requires the United States Postal Service to show “undue hardship to [its] business,” not to Groff's co-workers. Brief for Peti- tioner (emphasis added); see F. th , (CA ) (Hardiman, J., dissenting). The Court, however, recognizes that Title VII requires “undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's business.” U. S. C. §e(j) (emphasis added). Because the “conduct of [a] business” plainly in- cludes the management and performance of the business's employees, undue hardship on the conduct of a business may include undue hardship on the business's employees. See, e. g., Hardison, U. S., at – (deprivation of employees' bargained-for seniority rights constitutes undue hardship). There is no basis in the text of the statute, let alone in eco- See, e. g., H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a)()(B) (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a)() (); H. R. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); S. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a)() (); H. R. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a)() (). See Civil Rights Act of , Stat. (overruling Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Atonio, U. S. ()); Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of , Stat. (overruling Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., U. S. ()). Page Proof Pending Publication GROFF v. DeJOY Sotomayor, J., concurring nomics or common sense, to conclude otherwise. Indeed, for many businesses, labor is more important to the conduct of the business than any other factor. To be sure, some effects on co-workers will not constitute “undue hardship” under Title VII. For example, animus to- ward a protected group is not a cognizable “hardship” under any antidiscrimination statute. Cf. ante, at . In addi- tion, some hardships, such as the labor costs of coordinating voluntary shift swaps, are not “undue” because they are too insubstantial. See CFR §§ .(d)()(i), (e)(). Never- theless, if there is an undue hardship on “the conduct of the employer's business,” U. S. C. §e(j), then such hard- ship is suffcient, even if it consists of hardship on employees. With these observations, I join the opinion of the Court. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: None