Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court. To ensure that Americans could keep up with increasing international competition, Congress authorized the frst fed- Ilya Shapiro; for Six Veterans' Organizations by Boris Bershteyn; for Stu- dent Loan Experts by Christopher J. Wright and Stephen W. Miller; for Sen. Marsha Blackburn et al. by Steven A. Engel and Michael H. McGin- ley; for Elisabeth DeVos et al. by Alexander Akerman; and for Michael W. McConnell et al. by William R. Levi. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Utah et al. by Sean D. Reyes, Attorney General of Utah, and Melissa Holyoak, Solicitor General, by Dave Yost, Attorney General of Ohio, Benjamin M. Flowers, Solicitor General, and Sylvia May Mailman, Deputy Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as fol- lows: Steve Marshall of Alabama, Treg R. Taylor of Alaska, Ashley Moody of Florida, Christopher M. Carr of Georgia, Raúl Labrador of Idaho, Theo- dore E. Rokita of Indiana, Jeff Landry of Louisiana, Lynn Fitch of Missis- sippi, Austin Knudsen of Montana, John M. Formella of New Hampshire, Gentner Drummond of Oklahoma, Jonathan Skrmetti of Tennessee, Ken Paxton of Texas, Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia, and Bridget Hill of Wyoming; for the American Center for Law and Justice by Jay Alan Sek- ulow, Stuart J. Roth, Colby M. May, Jordan A. Sekulow, and Laura B. Hernandez; for Borrower Advocacy and Legal Aid Organizations by Joshua Rovenger and Persis Yu; for Citizens United et al. by William J. Olson, Jeremiah L. Morgan, Robert J. Olson, Michael Boos, and Daniel H. Jorjani; for Legal Scholars by Jeffrey B. Dubner and Sean A. Lev; for the Liberty Justice Center by Daniel R. Suhr; for Local Governments by Jonathan B. Miller, Joshua A. Rosenthal, Atleen Kaur, Mark Griffn, Arturo G. Michel, James D. Smiertka, Peter M. Bollinger, Leslie J. Gi- rard, John P. Markovs, Diana P. Cortes, Sheena Hamilton, Lyndsey M. Olson, and Ronald A. Hope; for Samuel L. Bray et al. by Melissa Arbus Sherry; for Howard McKeon et al. by Caleb Kruckenberg; and for U. S. Representatives et al. by Jennifer L. Mascott and R. Trent McCotter. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Commonwealth of Massachu- setts et al. by Elizabeth N. Dewar, Acting Attorney General of Massachu- setts, and Yael Shavit, Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Rob Bonta of Califor- nia, Philip J. Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of Delaware, Brian L. Schwalb of the District of Columbia, Anne E. Lopez of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois, Anthony G. Brown of Mary- land, Dana Nessel of Michigan, Keith Ellison of Minnesota, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Matthew J. Platkin of New Jersey, Raúl Torrez of New Mexico, Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court eral student loans in —up to a total of $, per student each year. National Defense Education Act of , Stat. . Outstanding federal student loans now total $. tril- lion extended to million borrowers. Letter from Con- gressional Budget Offce to Members of Congress, p. (Sept. , ) (CBO Letter). Last year, the Secretary of Education established the frst comprehensive student loan forgiveness program, invoking the Higher Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act of (HEROES Act) for authority to do so. The Secretary's plan canceled roughly $ billion of federal student loan balances, completely eras- ing the debts of million borrowers and lowering the me- dian amount owed by the other million from $, to $,. See ibid.; App. . Six States sued, arguing that the HEROES Act does not authorize the loan cancellation plan. We agree. I A The Higher Education Act of (Education Act) was enacted to increase educational opportunities and “assist in Letitia James of New York, Joshua H. Stein of North Carolina, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Charity R. Clark of Vermont, Robert W. Ferguson of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for the America First Pol- icy Institute by Craig W. Trainor and Rachel Jag; for the American Feder- ation of Teachers et al. by Yelena Konanova, Faith E. Gay, and Max H. Siegel; for the Atlantic Legal Foundation by Lawrence S. Ebner; for the Buckeye Institute by David C. Tryon and Robert Alt; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America by Robert E. Dunn, Amy Miller, and Jennifer B. Dickey; for the Landmark Legal Foundation by Michael J. O'Neill, Matthew C. Forys, and Richard P. Hutchison; for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by Damon Hewitt, Jon Greenbaum, David Hinojosa, and Genevieve Bonadies Torres; for the NAACP by Andrew D. Silverman; for the New Civil Liberties Alliance by Markham S. Chenoweth and Russell G. Ryan; for the Protect Democ- racy Project by Justin Florence and Genevieve Nadeau; for George Miller by Elizabeth B. Wydra and Brianne J. Gorod; and for Lawrence A. Stein by Mr. Stein, pro se. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court making available the benefts of postsecondary education to eligible students . . . in institutions of higher education.” U. S. C. § (a). To that end, Title IV of the Act restruc- tured federal fnancial aid mechanisms and established three types of federal student loans. Direct Loans are, as the name suggests, made directly to students and funded by the federal fsc; they constitute the bulk of the Federal Govern- ment's student lending efforts. See § a et seq. The Government also administers Perkins Loans—government- subsidized, low-interest loans made by schools to students with signifcant fnancial need—and Federal Family Edu- cation Loans, or FFELs—loans made by private lenders and guaranteed by the Federal Government. See §§ et seq., aa et seq. While FFELs and Perkins Loans are no longer issued, many remain outstanding. §§ (d), aa(b). The terms of federal loans are set by law, not the market, so they often come with benefts not offered by private lend- ers. Such benefts include deferment of any repayment until after graduation, loan qualifcation regardless of credit his- tory, relatively low fxed interest rates, income-sensitive re- payment plans, and—for undergraduate students with f- nancial need—government payment of interest while the borrower is in school. Dept. of Ed., Federal Student Aid, Federal Versus Private Loans. The Education Act specifes in detail the terms and condi- tions attached to federal loans, including applicable interest rates, loan fees, repayment plans, and consequences of de- fault. See §§ , , e, dd. It also authorizes the Secretary to cancel or reduce loans, but only in certain limited circumstances and to a particular extent. Specif- cally, the Secretary can cancel a set amount of loans held by some public servants—including teachers, members of the Armed Forces, Peace Corps volunteers, law enforcement and corrections offcers, frefghters, nurses, and librarians—who work in their professions for a minimum number of years. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court §§ –, j, ee. The Secretary can also forgive the loans of borrowers who have died or been “permanently and totally disabled,” such that they cannot “engage in any substantial gainful activity.” § (a)(). Bankrupt bor- rowers may have their loans forgiven. § (b). And the Secretary is directed to discharge loans for borrowers falsely certifed by their schools, borrowers whose schools close down, and borrowers whose schools fail to pay loan proceeds they owe to lenders. § (c). Shortly after the September terrorist attacks, Congress became concerned that borrowers affected by the crisis— particularly those who served in the military—would need additional assistance. As a result, it enacted the Higher Ed- ucation Relief Opportunities for Students Act of . That law provided the Secretary of Education, for a limited period of time, with “specifc waiver authority to respond to condi- tions in the national emergency” caused by the Septem- ber attacks. Stat. . Rather than allow this grant of authority to expire by its terms at the end of Sep- tember , Congress passed the Higher Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act of (HEROES Act). Stat. . That Act extended the coverage of the stat- ute to include any war or national emergency—not just the September attacks. By its terms, the Secretary “may waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision appli- cable to the student fnancial assistance programs under title IV of the [Education Act] as the Secretary deems necessary in connection with a war or other military operation or na- tional emergency.” U. S. C. § bb(a)(). Like its predecessor, the HEROES Act enjoyed virtually unani- mous bipartisan support at the time of its enactment, passing by a -to- vote in the House of Representatives and a unanimous voice vote in the Senate. See Cong. Rec. – (); id., at ; Cong. Rec. (); id., at –. The single dissenting Representa- tive later voiced his support for the Act, explaining that he “meant to vote `yea.' ” Cong. Rec. (statement of Rep. Miller). BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court The Secretary may issue waivers or modifcations only “as may be necessary to ensure” that “recipients of student f- nancial assistance under title IV of the [Education Act] who are affected individuals are not placed in a worse position fnancially in relation to that fnancial assistance because of their status as affected individuals.” § bb(a)()(A). An “affected individual” is defned, in relevant part, as someone who “resides or is employed in an area that is declared a disaster area by any Federal, State, or local offcial in connec- tion with a national emergency” or who “suffered direct eco- nomic hardship as a direct result of a war or other military operation or national emergency, as determined by the Sec- retary.” §§ ee()(C)–(D). And a “national emergency” for the purposes of the Act is “a national emergency declared by the President of the United States.” § ee(). Immediately following the passage of the Act in , the Secretary issued two dozen waivers and modifcations ad- dressing a handful of specifc issues. Fed. Reg. – . Among other changes, the Secretary waived the re- quirement that “affected individuals” must “return or repay an overpayment” of certain grant funds erroneously dis- bursed by the Government, id., at , and the require- ment that public service work must be uninterrupted to qualify an “affected individual” for loan cancellation, id., at . Additional adjustments were made in , with similar limited effects. Fed. Reg. –. But the Secretary took more signifcant action in response to the COVID– pandemic. On March , , the Presi- dent declared the pandemic a national emergency. Presi- dential Proclamation No. , Fed. Reg. – (). One week later, then-Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos announced that she was suspending loan repayments and interest accrual for all federally held student loans. See Dept. of Ed., Breaking News: Testing Waivers and Student Loan Relief (Mar. , ). The following week, Congress enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Act, which required the Secretary to extend the suspensions through the end of September . Stat. –. Before that extension expired, the President directed the Secretary, “[i]n light of the national emergency,” to “effectu- ate appropriate waivers of and modifcations to” the Educa- tion Act to keep the suspensions in effect through the end of the year. Fed. Reg. . And a few months later, the Secretary further extended the suspensions, broadened eligi- bility for federal fnancial assistance, and waived certain administrative requirements (to allow, for example, virtual rather than on-site accreditation visits and to extend dead- lines for fling reports). Id., at –; Fed. Reg. – (). Over a year and a half passed with no further action be- yond keeping the repayment and interest suspensions in place. But in August , a few weeks before President Biden stated that “the pandemic is over,” the Department of Education announced that it was once again issuing “waivers and modifcations” under the Act—this time to reduce and eliminate student debts directly. See App. –; Wash- ington Post, Sept. , , p. A, col. . During the frst year of the pandemic, the Department's Offce of General Counsel had issued a memorandum concluding that “the Sec- retary does not have statutory authority to provide blanket or mass cancellation, compromise, discharge, or forgiveness of student loan principal balances.” Memorandum from R. Rubinstein to B. DeVos, p. (Jan. , ). After a change in Presidential administrations and shortly before adoption of the challenged policy, however, the Offce of General Coun- sel “formally rescinded” its earlier legal memorandum and issued a replacement reaching the opposite conclusion. Fed. Reg. (). The new memorandum determined that the HEROES Act “grants the Secretary authority that could be used to effectuate a program of targeted loan can- cellation directed at addressing the fnancial harms of the COVID– pandemic.” Id., at . Upon receiving this Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court new opinion, the Secretary issued his proposal to cancel stu- dent debt under the HEROES Act. App. –. Two months later, he published the required notice of his “waiv- ers and modifcations” in the Federal Register. Fed. Reg. –. The terms of the debt cancellation plan are straightfor- ward: For borrowers with an adjusted gross income below $, in either or who have eligible federal loans, the Department of Education will discharge the bal- ance of those loans in an amount up to $, per borrower. Id., at (“modif[ying] the provisions of” U. S. C. §§ , dd(g); CFR pt. , subpt. D (); CFR §§ ., .). Borrowers who previously received Pell Grants qualify for up to $, in loan cancellation. Fed. Reg. . Eligible loans include “Direct Loans, FFEL loans held by the Department or subject to collection by a guaranty agency, and Perkins Loans held by the De- partment.” Ibid. The Department of Education estimates that about million borrowers qualify for relief, and the Congressional Budget Offce estimates that the plan will can- cel about $ billion in debt principal. See App. ; CBO Letter . B Six States moved for a preliminary injunction, claiming that the plan exceeded the Secretary's statutory authority. The District Court held that none of the States had standing to challenge the plan and dismissed the suit. F. Supp. d (ED Mo. ). The States appealed, and the Eighth Circuit issued a nationwide preliminary injunction pending resolution of the appeal. The court concluded that Missouri likely had standing through the Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority (MOHELA or Authority), a public corpora- A borrower fling “jointly or as a Head of Household, or as a qualifying widow(er),” qualifes for loan cancellation with an adjusted gross income lower than $,. Fed. Reg. . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tion that holds and services student loans. F. th (). It further concluded that the State's challenge raised “substantial” questions on the merits and that the eq- uities favored maintaining the status quo pending further review. Id., at (internal quotation marks omitted). With the plan on pause, the Secretary asked this Court to vacate the injunction or to grant certiorari before judgment, “to avoid prolonging this uncertainty for the millions of af- fected borrowers.” Application . We granted the petition and set the case for expedited argument. U. S. ––– (). II Before addressing the legality of the Secretary's program, we must frst ensure that the States have standing to chal- lenge it. Under Article III of the Constitution, a plaintiff needs a “personal stake” in the case. TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, U. S. –––, ––– (). That is, the plaintiff must have suffered an injury in fact—a concrete and immi- nent harm to a legally protected interest, like property or money—that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct and likely to be redressed by the lawsuit. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , – (). If at least one plaintiff has standing, the suit may proceed. Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic and Institutional Rights, Inc., U. S. , , n. (). Because we conclude that the Secre- tary's plan harms MOHELA and thereby directly injures Missouri—conferring standing on that State—we need not consider the other theories of standing raised by the States. Missouri created MOHELA as a nonproft government corporation to participate in the student loan market. Mo. Rev. Stat. § . (). The Authority owns over $ bil- lion in FFELs. MOHELA, FY Financial Statement (Financial Statement). It also services nearly $ billion worth of federal loans, having been hired by the Department of Education to collect payments and provide customer serv- ice to borrowers. Id., at , . MOHELA receives an ad- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court ministrative fee for each of the fve million federal accounts it services, totaling $. million in revenue last year alone. Ibid. Under the Secretary's plan, roughly half of all federal bor- rowers would have their loans completely discharged. App. . MOHELA could no longer service those closed ac- counts, costing it, by Missouri's estimate, $ million a year in fees that it otherwise would have earned under its con- tract with the Department of Education. Brief for Re- spondents . This fnancial harm is an injury in fact directly traceable to the Secretary's plan, as both the Government and the dissent concede. See Tr. of Oral Arg. ; post, at (Kagan, J., dissenting). The plan's harm to MOHELA is also a harm to Missouri. MOHELA is a “public instrumentality” of the State. Mo. Rev. Stat. § .. Missouri established the Authority to perform the “essential public function” of helping Missouri- ans access student loans needed to pay for college. Ibid.; see Todd v. Curators of University of Missouri, Mo. , , S. W. d , () (“Our constitution recog- nizes higher education as a governmental function.”). To fulfll this public purpose, the Authority is empowered by the State to invest in or fnance student loans, including by issu- ing bonds. §§ .()()–(). It may also service loans and collect “reasonable fees” for doing so. §§ .()(), (). Its profts help fund education in Missouri: MOHELA has provided $ million for development projects at Mis- souri colleges and universities and almost $ million in grants and scholarships for Missouri students. Financial Statement , . The Authority is subject to the State's supervision and control. Its board consists of two state offcials and fve members appointed by the Governor and approved by the Senate. § .. The Governor can remove any board member for cause. Ibid. MOHELA must provide annual fnancial reports to the Missouri Department of Education, Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court detailing its income, expenditures, and assets. § .. The Authority is therefore “directly answerable” to the State. Casualty Reciprocal Exchange v. Missouri Employ- ers Mut. Ins. Co., S. W. d , (Mo. ). The State “set[s] the terms of its existence,” and only the State “can abolish [MOHELA] and set the terms of its dissolution.” Id., at –. By law and function, MOHELA is an instrumentality of Missouri: It was created by the State to further a public purpose, is governed by state offcials and state appointees, reports to the State, and may be dissolved by the State. The Secretary's plan will cut MOHELA's revenues, impair- ing its efforts to aid Missouri college students. This ac- knowledged harm to MOHELA in the performance of its public function is necessarily a direct injury to Missouri itself. We came to a similar conclusion years ago in Arkansas v. Texas, U. S. (). Arkansas sought to invoke our original jurisdiction in a suit against Texas, claiming that Texas had wrongfully interfered with a contract between the University of Arkansas and a Texas charity. Id., at . Texas argued that the suit could not proceed because the University did “not stand in the shoes of the State.” Id., at . The harm to the University, as Texas saw it, was not a harm to Arkansas suffcient for the State to sue in its own name. We disagreed. We recognized that “Arkansas must, of course, represent an interest of her own and not merely that of her citizens or corporations.” Ibid. But we concluded that Arkansas was in fact seeking to protect its own inter- ests because the University was “an offcial state instrumen- tality.” Ibid. The State had labeled the University “an in- strument of the state in the performance of a governmental work.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). The Uni- versity served a public purpose, acting as the State's “agen[t] in the educational feld.” Id., at . The University had Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court been “created by the Arkansas legislature,” was “governed by a Board of Trustees appointed by the Governor with con- sent of the Senate,” and “report[ed] all of its expenditures to the legislature.” Id., at . In short, the University was an instrumentality of the State, and “any injury under the contract to the University [was] an injury to Arkansas.” Ibid. So too here. Because the Authority is part of Mis- souri, the State does not seek to “rely on injuries suffered by others.” Post, at – (opinion of Kagan, J.). It aims to remedy its own. The Secretary and the dissent assert that MOHELA's in- juries should not count as Missouri's because MOHELA, as a public corporation, has a legal personality separate from the State. Every government corporation has such a dis- tinct personality; it is a corporation, after all, “with the pow- ers to hold and sell property and to sue and be sued.” First Nat. City Bank v. Banco Para el Comercio Exterior de Cuba, U. S. , (). Yet such an instrumental- ity—created and operated to fulfll a public function—none- theless remains “(for many purposes at least) part of the Government itself.” Lebron v. National Railroad Passen- ger Corporation, U. S. , (). In Lebron, Amtrak was sued for refusing to display a polit- ical advertisement on a billboard at one of its stations. Id., at –. Amtrak argued that it was not subject to the First Amendment because it was a corporation separate from the Federal Government. See id., at . Congress had even specifed in its authorizing statute that Amtrak was not “an agency or establishment of the United States Gov- ernment.” Id., at (quoting Stat. ). Despite this disclaimer, we held that Amtrak remained subject to the First Amendment because it functioned as an instrumental- ity of the Federal Government, “created by a special statute, explicitly for the furtherance of federal governmental goals” of ensuring that the American public had access to passenger trains. Lebron, U. S., at . Its board was appointed by the President, and it had to submit annual reports to the Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court President and Congress. Id., at –. Having been “es- tablished and organized under federal law for the very pur- pose of pursuing federal governmental objectives, under the direction and control of federal governmental appointees,” Amtrak could not disclaim that it was “part of the Govern- ment.” Id., at , . We reiterated the point in Department of Transportation v. Association of American Railroads, U. S. (). There, railroads argued that giving Amtrak regulatory power was an unconstitutional delegation of government au- thority to a private entity. Id., at –. We rejected that contention, noting that “Amtrak was created by the Govern- ment, is controlled by the Government, and operates for the Government's beneft.” Id., at . It was therefore acting “as a governmental entity” in exercising that regulatory power. Id., at . That principle holds true here. The Secretary and the dissent contend that because MOHELA can sue on its own behalf, it—not Missouri—must be the one to sue. But in Arkansas, U. S. , the University of Arkansas could have asserted its rights under the contract on its own. The University's governing statute made it “a body politic and corporate,” with “all the powers of a corporate body,” Ark. Stat. § – ()—including the power to sue and be sued on its own behalf, see HRR Arkansas, Inc. v. River City Contractors, Inc., Ark. , , S. W. d , (); see, e. g., Board of Trustees, Univ. of Ark. v. Pulaski County, Ark. , S. W. d (). We permitted Arkansas to bring an original suit all the same. Where a State has been harmed in carrying out its responsibilities, the fact that it chose to exercise its authority through a pub- lic corporation it created and controls does not bar the State from suing to remedy that harm itself. The dissent, for all its attempts to cabin these precedents, cites no precedents of its own addressing a State's standing to sue for a harm to its instrumentality. The dissent offers only a state court case involving a different public corporation, in which the Missouri Supreme Court said Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court The Secretary's plan harms MOHELA in the performance of its public function and so directly harms the State that created and controls MOHELA. Missouri thus has suffered an injury in fact suffcient to give it standing to challenge the Secretary's plan. With Article III satisfed, we turn to the merits. III The Secretary asserts that the HEROES Act grants him the authority to cancel $ billion of student loan principal. It does not. We hold today that the Act allows the Secre- tary to “waive or modify” existing statutory or regulatory provisions applicable to fnancial assistance programs under the Education Act, not to rewrite that statute from the ground up. A The HEROES Act authorizes the Secretary to “waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision applicable to the student fnancial assistance programs under title IV of the [Education Act] as the Secretary deems necessary in con- nection with a war or other military operation or national emergency.” U. S. C. § bb(a)(). That power has limits. To begin with, statutory permission to “modify” does not authorize “basic and fundamental changes in the scheme” designed by Congress. MCI Telecommunications Corp. v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., U. S. , (). Instead, that term carries “a connotation of in- crement or limitation,” and must be read to mean “to change moderately or in minor fashion.” Ibid. That is how the word is ordinarily used. See, e. g., Webster's Third New In- that the corporation was separate from the State for the purposes of a state ban on “the lending of the credit of the state.” Menorah Medical Center v. Health and Ed. Facilities Auth., S. W. d , () (plu- rality opinion). But as the dissent recognizes, a public corporation can count as part of the State for some but not “other purposes.” Post, at , and n. . The Missouri Supreme Court said nothing about, and had no reason to address, whether an injury to that public corporation was a harm to the State. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court ternational Dictionary () (defning “modify” as “to make more temperate and less extreme,” “to limit or restrict the meaning of,” or “to make minor changes in the form or structure of [or] alter without transforming”). The legal defnition is no different. Black's Law Dictionary (th ed. ) (giving the frst defnition of “modify” as “[t]o make somewhat different; to make small changes to,” and the sec- ond as “[t]o make more moderate or less sweeping”). The authority to “modify” statutes and regulations allows the Secretary to make modest adjustments and additions to ex- isting provisions, not transform them. The Secretary's previous invocations of the HEROES Act illustrate this point. Prior to the COVID– pandemic, “modifcations” issued under the Act implemented only minor changes, most of which were procedural. Examples include reducing the number of tax forms borrowers are required to fle, extending time periods in which borrowers must take certain actions, and allowing oral rather than written au- thorizations. See Fed. Reg. –. Here, the Secretary purported to “modif[y] the provisions of” two statutory sections and three related regulations gov- erning student loans. Fed. Reg. . The affected statutory provisions granted the Secretary the power to “discharge [a] borrower's liability,” or pay the remaining principal on a loan, under certain narrowly prescribed cir- cumstances. U. S. C. §§ , dd(g)(). Those cir- cumstances were limited to a borrower's death, disability, or bankruptcy; a school's false certifcation of a borrower or fail- ure to refund loan proceeds as required by law; and a bor- rower's inability to complete an educational program due to closure of the school. See §§ (a)–(d), dd(g). The corresponding regulatory provisions detailed rules and pro- cedures for such discharges. They also defned the terms of the Government's public service loan forgiveness program and provided for discharges when schools commit malfea- sance. See CFR §§ ., .; CFR pt. , subpt. D. Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court The Secretary's new “modifcations” of these provisions were not “moderate” or “minor.” Instead, they created a novel and fundamentally different loan forgiveness program. The new program vests authority in the Department of Edu- cation to discharge up to $, for every borrower with income below $, and up to $, for every such bor- rower who has received a Pell Grant. Fed. Reg. . No prior limitation on loan forgiveness is left standing. In- stead, every borrower within the specifed income cap auto- matically qualifes for debt cancellation, no matter their cir- cumstances. The Department of Education estimates that the program will cover .% of all borrowers. See Dept. of Ed., White House Fact Sheet: The Biden Administration's Plan for Student Debt Relief Could Beneft Tens of Millions of Borrowers in All Fifty States (Sept. , ). From a few narrowly delineated situations specifed by Congress, the Secretary has expanded forgiveness to nearly every bor- rower in the country. The Secretary's plan has “modifed” the cited provisions only in the same sense that “the French Revolution `modi- fed' the status of the French nobility”—it has abolished them and supplanted them with a new regime entirely. MCI, U. S., at . Congress opted to make debt for- giveness available only in a few particular exigent circum- stances; the power to modify does not permit the Secretary to “convert that approach into its opposite” by creating a new program affecting million Americans and $ billion in federal debt. Descamps v. United States, U. S. , (). Labeling the Secretary's plan a mere “modifca- tion” does not lessen its effect, which is in essence to allow the Secretary unfettered discretion to cancel student loans. It is “highly unlikely that Congress” authorized such a sweeping loan cancellation program “through such a subtle device as permission to `modify.' ” MCI, U. S., at . The Secretary responds that the Act authorizes him to “waive” legal provisions as well as modify them—and that Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court this additional term “grant[s] broader authority” than would “modify” alone. But the Secretary's invocation of the waiver power here does not remotely resemble how it has been used on prior occasions. Previously, waiver under the HEROES Act was straightforward: the Secretary identifed a particular legal requirement and waived it, making compli- ance no longer necessary. For instance, on one occasion the Secretary waived the requirement that a student provide a written request for a leave of absence. See Fed. Reg. . On another, he waived the regulatory provisions re- quiring schools and guaranty agencies to attempt collection of defaulted loans for the time period in which students were affected individuals. See Fed. Reg. . Here, the Secretary does not identify any provision that he is actually waiving. No specifc provision of the Educa- tion Act establishes an obligation on the part of student bor- rowers to pay back the Government. So as the Government concedes, “waiver”—as used in the HEROES Act—cannot refer to “waiv[ing] loan balances” or “waiving the obligation to repay” on the part of a borrower. Tr. of Oral Arg. , . Contrast U. S. C. § b(b)()(D) (allowing the Secretary to “waive the amounts that students are required to return” in specifed circumstances of overpayment by the Govern- ment). Because the Secretary cannot waive a particular provision or provisions to achieve the desired result, he is forced to take a more circuitous approach, one that avoids any need to show compliance with the statutory limitation on his authority. He simply “waiv[es] the elements of the discharge and cancellation provisions that are inapplicable in this [debt cancellation] program that would limit eligibility to other contexts.” Tr. of Oral Arg. –. While the Secretary's notice published in the Federal Register refers to “waivers and modifcations” generally, see Fed. Reg. –, and while two sentences use the somewhat ambiguous phrase “[t]his waiver,” id., at , the notice identifes no specifc legal provision as having been “waived” by the Secretary. Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court Yet even that expansive conception of waiver cannot jus- tify the Secretary's plan, which does far more than relax existing legal requirements. The plan specifes particular sums to be forgiven and income-based eligibility require- ments. The addition of these new and substantially differ- ent provisions cannot be said to be a “waiver” of the old in any meaningful sense. Recognizing this, the Secretary acknowledges that waiver alone is not enough; after waiving whatever “inapplicable” law would bar his debt cancellation plan, he says, he then “modif[ied] the provisions to bring [them] in line with this program.” Id., at . So in the end, the Secretary's plan relies on modifcations all the way down. And as we have explained, the word “modify” simply cannot bear that load. The Secretary and the dissent go on to argue that the power to “waive or modify” is greater than the sum of its parts. Because waiver allows the Secretary “to eliminate legal obligations in their entirety,” the argument runs, the combination of “waive or modify” allows him “to reduce them to any extent short of waiver”—even if the power to “modify” ordinarily does not stretch that far. Reply Brief – (internal quotation marks omitted). But the Secre- tary's program cannot be justifed by such sleight of hand. The Secretary has not truly waived or modifed the provi- sions in the Education Act authorizing specifc and limited forgiveness of student loans. Those provisions remain safely intact in the U. S. Code, where they continue to oper- ate in full force. What the Secretary has actually done is draft a new section of the Education Act from scratch by “waiving” provisions root and branch and then flling the empty space with radically new text. Lastly, the Secretary points to a procedural provision in the HEROES Act. The Act directs the Secretary to publish a notice in the Federal Register “includ[ing] the terms and conditions to be applied in lieu of such statutory and regula- tory provisions” as the Secretary has waived or modifed. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court U. S. C. § bb(b)() (emphasis added). In the Secre- tary's view, that language authorizes “both deleting and then adding back in, waiving and then putting his own require- ments in”—a sort of “red penciling” of the existing law. Tr. of Oral Arg. ; see also Reply Brief . Section bb(b)() is, however, “a wafer-thin reed on which to rest such sweeping power.” Alabama Assn. of Re- altors v. Department of Health and Human Servs., U. S. –––, ––– () (per curiam). The provision is no more than it appears to be: a humdrum reporting requirement. Rather than implicitly granting the Secretary authority to draft new substantive statutory provisions at will, it simply imposes the obligation to report any waivers and modifcations he has made. Section bb(b)() suggests that “waivers and modifcations” includes additions. The dissent accordingly reads the statute as authorizing any degree of change or any new addition, “from modest to substantial”—and nothing in the dissent's analysis suggests stopping at “substantial.” Post, at . Because the Secretary “does not have to leave gaping holes” when he waives provisions, the argument runs, it follows that any replacement terms the Secretary uses to fll those holes must be lawful. Ibid. But the Secretary's ability to add new terms “in lieu of” the old is limited to his authority to “modify” existing law. As with any other modifcation issued under the Act, no new term or condition reported pursuant to § bb(b)() may distort the funda- mental nature of the provision it alters. The Secretary's comprehensive debt cancellation plan can- not fairly be called a waiver—it not only nullifes existing provisions, but augments and expands them dramatically. It cannot be mere modifcation, because it constitutes “effec- The dissent asserts that our decision today will control any challenge to the Secretary's temporary suspensions of loan repayments and interest accrual. Post, at –. We decide only the case before us. A chal- lenge to the suspensions may involve different considerations with respect to both standing and the merits. Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court tively the introduction of a whole new regime.” MCI, U. S., at . And it cannot be some combination of the two, because when the Secretary seeks to add to existing law, the fact that he has “waived” certain provisions does not give him a free pass to avoid the limits inherent in the power to “modify.” However broad the meaning of “waive or mod- ify,” that language cannot authorize the kind of exhaustive rewriting of the statute that has taken place here. B In a fnal bid to elide the statutory text, the Secretary appeals to congressional purpose. “The whole point of” the HEROES Act, the Government contends, “is to ensure that in the face of a national emergency that is causing fnancial harm to borrowers, the Secretary can do something.” Tr. of Oral Arg. . And that “something” was left deliberately vague because Congress intended “to grant substantial dis- cretion to the Secretary to respond to unforeseen emergen- cies.” Reply Brief , n. . So the unprecedented nature of the Secretary's debt cancellation plan only “refects the pandemic's unparalleled scope.” Brief for Petitioners (Brief for United States). The dissent agrees. “Emergencies, after all, are emer- gencies,” it reasons, and “more serious measures” must be expected “in response to more serious problems.” Post, at , . The dissent's interpretation of the HEROES Act The States further contend that the Secretary's program violates the requirement in the HEROES Act that any waivers or modifcations be “necessary to ensure that . . . affected individuals are not placed in a worse position fnancially in relation to” federal fnancial assistance. U. S. C. § bb(a)()(A); see Brief for Respondents –. While our decision does not rest upon that reasoning, we note that the Secretary faces a daunting task in showing that cancellation of debt principal is “necessary to ensure” that borrowers are not placed in “worse position[s] fnancially in relation to” their loans, especially given the Government's prior deter- mination that pausing interest accrual and loan repayments would achieve that end. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court would grant unlimited power to the Secretary, not only to modify or waive certain provisions but to “fll the holes that action creates with new terms”—no matter how drastic those terms might be—and to “alter [provisions] to the ex- tent [he] think[s] appropriate,” up to and including “the most substantial kind of change” imaginable. Post, at , . That is inconsistent with the statutory language and past practice under the statute. The question here is not whether something should be done; it is who has the authority to do it. Our recent deci- sion in West Virginia v. EPA involved similar concerns over the exercise of administrative power. U. S. ––– (). That case involved the EPA's claim that the Clean Air Act authorized it to impose a nationwide cap on carbon dioxide emissions. Given “the `history and the breadth of the au- thority that [the agency] ha[d] asserted,' and the `economic and political signifcance' of that assertion,” we found that there was “ `reason to hesitate before concluding that Con- gress' meant to confer such authority.” Id., at ––– (quoting FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., U. S. , – (); frst alteration in original). So too here, where the Secretary of Education claims the authority, on his own, to release million borrowers from their obligations to repay $ billion in student loans. The Secretary has never previously claimed powers of this mag- nitude under the HEROES Act. As we have already noted, past waivers and modifcations issued under the Act have been extremely modest and narrow in scope. The Act has been used only once before to waive or modify a provision related to debt cancellation: In , the Secretary waived the requirement that borrowers seeking loan forgiveness under the Education Act's public service discharge provi- sions “perform uninterrupted, otherwise qualifying service for a specifed length of time (for example, one year) or for consecutive periods of time, such as consecutive years.” Fed. Reg. . That waiver simply eased the require- Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court ment that service be uninterrupted to qualify for the public service loan forgiveness program. In sum, “no regulation premised on” the HEROES Act “has even begun to approach the size or scope” of the Secretary's program. Alabama Assn., U. S., at –––. Under the Government's reading of the HEROES Act, the Secretary would enjoy virtually unlimited power to rewrite the Education Act. This would “effec[t] a `fundamental revi- sion of the statute, changing it from [one sort of] scheme of . . . regulation' into an entirely different kind,” West Vir- ginia, U. S., at ––– (quoting MCI, U. S., at )— one in which the Secretary may unilaterally defne every as- pect of federal student fnancial aid, provided he determines that recipients have “suffered direct economic hardship as a direct result of a . . . national emergency.” U. S. C. § ee()(D). The “ `economic and political signifcance' ” of the Secre- tary's action is staggering by any measure. West Virginia, U. S., at ––– (quoting Brown & Williamson, U. S., at ). Practically every student borrower benefts, regard- less of circumstances. A budget model issued by the Whar- ton School of the University of Pennsylvania estimates that the program will cost taxpayers “between $ billion and $ billion,” depending on the total number of borrowers ultimately covered. App. . That is ten times the “eco- nomic impact” that we found signifcant in concluding that an eviction moratorium implemented by the Centers for Dis- ease Control and Prevention triggered analysis under the The Secretary also cites a prior invocation of the HEROES Act waiv- ing the requirement that borrowers must repay prior overpayments of certain grant funds. See Brief for United States ; Fed. Reg. . But Congress had already limited borrower liability in such cases to ex- clude overpayments in amounts up to “ percent of the total grant assist- ance received by the student” for the period at issue, so the Secretary's waiver had only a modest effect. U. S. C. § b(b)()(C)(i)(II). And that waiver simply held the Government responsible for its own errors when it had mistakenly disbursed undeserved grant funds. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court major questions doctrine. Alabama Assn., U. S., at –––. It amounts to nearly one-third of the Government's $. tril- lion in annual discretionary spending. Congressional Bud- get Offce, The Federal Budget in Fiscal Year . There is no serious dispute that the Secretary claims the authority to exercise control over “a signifcant portion of the Ameri- can economy.” Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA, U. S. , () (quoting Brown & Williamson, U. S., at ). The dissent is correct that this is a case about one branch of government arrogating to itself power belonging to an- other. But it is the Executive seizing the power of the Leg- islature. The Secretary's assertion of administrative au- thority has “conveniently enabled [him] to enact a program” that Congress has chosen not to enact itself. West Virginia, U. S., at –––. Congress is not unaware of the challen- ges facing student borrowers. “More than student loan forgiveness bills and other student loan legislation” were considered by Congress during its th session alone. M. Kantrowitz, Year in Review: Student Loan Forgiveness Legislation, Forbes, Dec. , . And the discussion is not confned to the halls of Congress. Student loan cancella- tion “raises questions that are personal and emotionally charged, hitting fundamental issues about the structure of the economy.” J. Stein, Biden Student Debt Plan Fuels Broader Debate Over Forgiving Borrowers, Washington Post, Aug. , . The sharp debates generated by the Secretary's extraordi- nary program stand in stark contrast to the unanimity with which Congress passed the HEROES Act. The dissent asks us to “[i]magine asking the enacting Congress: Can the Sec- retary use his powers to give borrowers more relief when Resolutions were also introduced in and “[c]alling on the President . . . to take executive action to broadly cancel Federal student loan debt.” See S. Res. , th Cong., d Sess. (); S. Res. , th Cong., st Sess. (). Those resolutions failed to reach a vote. Page Proof Pending Publication BIDEN v. NEBRASKA Opinion of the Court an emergency has inficted greater harm?” Post, at . The dissent “can't believe” the answer would be no. Ibid. But imagine instead asking the enacting Congress a more pertinent question: “Can the Secretary use his powers to abolish $ billion in student loans, completely canceling loan balances for million borrowers, as a pandemic winds down to its end?” We can't believe the answer would be yes. Congress did not unanimously pass the HEROES Act with such power in mind. “A decision of such magnitude and consequence” on a matter of “ `earnest and profound de- bate across the country' ” must “res[t] with Congress itself, or an agency acting pursuant to a clear delegation from that representative body.” West Virginia, U. S., at –––, ––– (quoting Gonzales v. Oregon, U. S. , – ()). As then-Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi explained: “People think that the President of the United States has the power for debt forgiveness. He does not. He can postpone. He can delay. But he does not have that power. That has to be an act of Congress.” Press Conference, Offce of the Speaker of the House (July , ). Aside from reiterating its interpretation of the statute, the dissent offers little to rebut our conclusion that “indicators from our previous major questions cases are present” here. Post, at (Barrett, J., concurring). The dissent insists that “[s]tudent loans are in the Secretary's wheelhouse.” Post, at (opinion of Kagan, J.). But in light of the sweep- ing and unprecedented impact of the Secretary's loan for- giveness program, it would seem more accurate to describe the program as being in the “wheelhouse” of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. Rather than dis- pute the extent of that impact, the dissent chooses to mount a frontal assault on what it styles “the Court's made-up major questions doctrine.” Post, at . But its attempt to relitigate West Virginia is misplaced. As we explained in that case, while the major questions “label” may be rela- tively recent, it refers to “an identifable body of law that has Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court developed over a series of signifcant cases” spanning dec- ades. West Virginia, U. S., at –––. At any rate, “the issue now is not whether [West Virginia is] correct. The question is whether that case is distinguishable from this one. And it is not.” Collins v. Yellen, U. S. –––, ––– () (Kagan, J., concurring in part and