Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the Court. This case concerns the effective date of an award of dis- ability compensation to a veteran of the United States mili- tary. The governing statute provides that the effective date of the award “shall not be earlier” than the day on which the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) receives the veteran's application for benefts. But the statute specifes excep- tions, one of which is relevant here: If the VA receives the application within a year of the veteran's discharge, the ef- fective date is the day after the veteran's discharge. We must decide whether this exception is subject to equitable tolling, a doctrine that would allow some applications fled outside the -year period to qualify for the “day after dis- charge” effective date. We hold that the provision cannot be equitably tolled. I A The United States offers benefts to any veteran who suf- fers a service-connected disability. U. S. C. §§ , . A veteran seeking these benefts must fle a claim with the VA. § (a)()(A). “A regional offce of the VA then de- termines whether the veteran satisfes all legal prerequi- sites, including the requirement that military service caused or aggravated the disability.” George v. McDonough, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (). If the regional offce grants the application, it assigns an “effective date” to the award, and payments begin the month after that date. §§ (a)(), and Zachary Stolz; and for Military-Veterans Advocacy Inc., et al. by Mel- anie L. Bostwick, Cesar A. Lopez-Morales, John B. Wells, and Harvey Weiner. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Edgewood Veterans et al. by Liam J. Montgomery, Charles L. McCloud, Diane Boyd Rauber, William A. Rivera, Leonard J. Selfon, and Linda E. Blauhut; for the Federal Circuit Bar Association by Nicholas F. Giove, Jonathan A. Herstoff, and Aakruti G. Vakharia; and for the National Law School Veterans Clinic Consortium by Angela K. Drake. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court (a)(). If the effective date precedes the date on which the VA received the claim, the veteran receives retroactive benefts. Section dictates how this date is calculated. The de- fault rule is that “the effective date of an award . . . shall be fxed in accordance with the facts found, but shall not be earlier than the date of receipt of application therefor.” § (a)(). This rule applies “[u]nless specifcally provided otherwise in this chapter.” Ibid. Sixteen exceptions in § “provid[e] otherwise,” including one specifying that “[t]he effective date of an award of disability compensation to a veteran shall be the day following the date of the veteran's discharge or release if application therefor is received within one year from such date of discharge or release.” § (b)(). On its face, this exception allows up to one year of retroactive benefts. But if the VA can treat an ap- plication fled more than one year after discharge as if it had been fled within the statutory window, a veteran could potentially recover decades' worth of retroactive payments. B Adolfo Arellano served in the Navy from until his honorable discharge in . Approximately years later, the VA received Arellano's application for disability compen- sation based on his psychiatric disorders. A VA regional offce found that Arellano's disorders resulted from trauma that he suffered while serving on an aircraft carrier that collided with another ship. So the regional offce granted Arellano benefts for his service-connected disabilities— schizoaffective disorder bipolar type with posttraumatic stress disorder. It assigned an effective date of June , , the day that the VA received his claim. Arellano appealed the regional offce's decision to the VA's Board of Veterans' Appeals. He acknowledged that he did not submit an application for benefts until June . But he argued that the regional offce should have equitably Page Proof Pending Publication ARELLANO v. McDONOUGH Opinion of the Court tolled § (b)()'s -year timeline to make his award effec- tive as of the day after his discharge from service in or, at the latest, January , . In support of equitable toll- ing, Arellano alleged that he had been too ill to know that he could apply for service-connected disability benefts. The Board denied Arellano's request for equitable tolling, and the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims affrmed. The en banc Federal Circuit affrmed the judgment unani- mously but divided equally on the supporting rationale. Half the court, adhering to Circuit precedent, maintained that § (b)() is not subject to equitable tolling. F. th , () (Chen, J.,