PRELIMINARY PRINT Volume U. S. Part Pages – OFFICIAL REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT February , REBECCA A. WOMELDORF reporter of decisions Page Proof Pending Publication NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. , pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors. Page Proof Pending Publication OCTOBER TERM, Syllabus CRUZ v. ARIZONA certiorari to the supreme court of arizona No. –. Argued November , —Decided February , Petitioner John Montenegro Cruz was found guilty of capital murder by an Arizona jury and sentenced to death. Both at trial and on direct appeal, Cruz argued that under Simmons v. South Carolina, U. S. , he should have been allowed to inform the jury that a life sentence in Arizona would be without parole. The trial court and Arizona Su- preme Court held that Arizona's capital sentencing scheme did not trig- ger application of Simmons. After Cruz's conviction became fnal, this Court held in Lynch v. Arizona, U. S. (per curiam), that it was fundamental error to conclude that Simmons “did not apply” in Arizona. U. S., at . Cruz then sought to raise the Simmons issue again in a state postconviction petition under Arizona Rule of Criminal Proce- dure .(g), which permits a defendant to bring a successive petition if “there has been a signifcant change in the law that, if applicable to the defendant's case, would probably overturn the defendant's judgment or sentence.” The Arizona Supreme Court denied relief after concluding that Lynch was not “a signifcant change in the law.” Held: The Arizona Supreme Court's holding that Lynch was not a signif- cant change in the law is an exceptional case where a state-court judg- ment rests on such a novel and unforeseeable interpretation of a state- court procedural rule that the decision is not adequate to foreclose review of the federal claim. Pp. –. (a) This Court does not decide a question of federal law in a case if the state-court judgment “rests on a state law ground that is independent of the federal question and adequate to support the judgment.” Cole- man v. Thompson, U. S. , . In this case the Court focuses on the requirement of adequacy; whether Arizona's “state procedural ruling is adequate is itself a question of federal law,” Beard v. Kindler, U. S. , . A state procedural ruling that is “ `frmly established and regularly followed' ” will ordinarily “be adequate to foreclose review of a federal claim.” Lee v. Kemna, U. S. , . This case is an exception, however, implicating this Court's rule that “an unforeseeable and unsupported state-court decision on a question of state procedure does not constitute an adequate ground to preclude this Court's review of a federal question.” Bouie v. City of Columbia, U. S. , . At issue here is the Arizona Supreme Court's decision that Cruz's motion for postconviction relief failed to satisfy Arizona Rule of Crimi- CRUZ v. ARIZONA Syllabus nal Procedure .(g) because Lynch did not result in “a signifcant change in the law.” That court reasoned that Lynch was not a signif- cant change in the law because it relied on Simmons, which was clearly established law at the time of Cruz's trial. It so held even though Lynch overruled binding Arizona precedent foreclosing Simmons relief for Arizona capital defendants, and even though the Arizona Supreme Court had previously explained that the “archetype” of a “signifcant change in the law” is the overruling of “previously binding case law.” State v. Shrum, Ariz. , , P. d , . While the court reasoned that a signifcant change in the application of a law is not the same as a signifcant change in the law itself, Arizona can point to no other Rule .(g) decision supporting that distinction. This in- terpretation of Rule .(g) is entirely new and conficts with prior Ari- zona case law. The novelty arises from the way in which the Arizona Supreme Court disregarded the effect of Lynch on Arizona law. Ordi- narily, Arizona courts applying Rule .(g) focus on how a decision changes the law that is operative in the State. Here, however, the Ari- zona Supreme Court disregarded the many state precedents overruled by Lynch, focusing instead on whether Lynch had wrought a signifcant change in federal law. Because the Arizona Supreme Court's interpre- tation is so novel and unforeseeable, it cannot constitute an adequate state procedural ground for the challenged decision. Arizona's interpretation generates a catch- for Cruz and other simi- larly situated capital defendants that only serves to compound its nov- elty. To obtain relief under Rule .(g), a defendant must establish not just a signifcant change in the law but also that the law in question applies retroactively under Teague v. Lane, U. S. . Prior to the Arizona Supreme Court's decision below, it was possible to show that Lynch both was a “signifcant change in the law” and satisfed retro- activity because it merely applied Simmons. On the interpretation adopted below, however, the argument that Lynch applied “settled” fed- eral law for retroactivity purposes also implies that Lynch does not represent a “signifcant change in the law.” Earlier Rule .(g) deci- sions did not generate this catch-. Given the Court's conclusion that the Arizona Supreme Court's application of Rule .(g) to Lynch is so novel and unfounded that it does not constitute an adequate state proce- dural ground, it is unnecessary for the Court to determine whether the decision below is also independent of federal law. Pp. –. (b) Counterarguments presented in this case offer various reformul- ations of the argument that Lynch was not a “signifcant change in the law” for Rule .(g) purposes, but they fail to grapple with the basic point that Lynch reversed previously binding Arizona Supreme Court precedent. The fact that Lynch was a summary reversal did not justify Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus the Arizona Supreme Court in treating Lynch differently than other transformative decisions of this Court. Although Lynch did not change this Court's interpretation of Simmons, it did change the operation of Simmons by Arizona courts in a way that matters for Rule .(g). And it makes no difference that Lynch did not alter federal law. The analytic focus of Arizona courts applying Rule .(g) has always been on the impact to Arizona law. Nor does this Court's interpretation forestall Arizona's ability to develop its Rule .(g) jurisprudence in new contexts. That the Arizona Supreme Court had never before ap- plied Rule .(g) to a summary reversal did not present a new context in this case. Finally, no effective parallel can be drawn between Rule .(g) and very different procedural rules governing federal prisoners, e. g., U. S. C. §§(f), (h). Pp. –. Ariz. , P. d , vacated and remanded. Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kagan, Kavanaugh, and Jackson, JJ., joined. Barrett, J., fled a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas, Alito, and Gorsuch, JJ., joined, post, p. . Neal Kumar Katyal argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs were Katherine B. Wellington, Wil- liam E. Havemann, Jon M. Sands, and Cary Sandman. Joseph A. Kanefeld argued the cause for respondent. With him on the briefs were Mark Brnovich, Attorney Gen- eral of Arizona, Brunn W. Roysden III, Solicitor General, Jeffrey L. Sparks, Deputy Solicitor General, and Erin Ben- nett, Laura P. Chiasson, and Ginger Jarvis, Assistant Attor- neys General.* *Melanie L. Bostwick, Thomas M. Bondy, and Melanie Hallums fled a brief for Federal Courts Scholars as amici curiae urging reversal. Briefs of amici curiae urging vacatur were fled for the Arizona Capital Representation Project et al. by Elizabeth G. Bentley; for LatinoJustice PRLDEF et al. by Bruce H. Schneider, Lourdes Rosado, Janai S. Nelson, and Samuel Spital; and for the Ohio Justice & Policy Center et al. by Michael E. Bern, Michael L. Zuckerman, and Easha Anand. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the National Association of Crimi- nal Defense Lawyers et al. by Noah A. Levine, Jeffrey L. Fisher, David D. Cole, and Jared G. Keenan; and for Jonathan F. Mitchell et al. by Adam K. Mortara and Mr. Mitchell, both pro se. Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Opinion of the Court Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court. Petitioner John Montenegro Cruz, a defendant sentenced to death, argued at trial and on direct appeal that his due process rights had been violated by the trial court's failure to permit him to inform the jury that a life sentence in Ari- zona would be without parole. See Simmons v. South Caro- lina, U. S. , – () (plurality opinion); id., at (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment). Those courts re- jected Cruz's Simmons argument, believing, incorrectly, that Arizona's sentencing and parole scheme did not trigger appli- cation of Simmons. See State v. Cruz, Ariz. , , P. d , (). After the Arizona Supreme Court repeated that mistake in a series of cases, this Court summarily reversed the Ari- zona Supreme Court in Lynch v. Arizona, U. S. () (per curiam), and held that it was fundamental error to conclude that Simmons “did not apply” in Arizona. U. S., at . Relying on Lynch, Cruz fled a motion for state postconvic- tion relief under Arizona Rule of Criminal Procedure .(g). That Rule permits a defendant to bring a successive petition if “there has been a signifcant change in the law that, if applicable to the defendant's case, would probably overturn the defendant's judgment or sentence.” Ariz. Rule Crim. Proc. .(g) (Cum. Supp. ); see also ibid. (Cum. Supp. ). The Arizona Supreme Court denied relief after concluding that Lynch was not a “signifcant change in the law.” Ariz. , , P. d , (). The Arizona Su- preme Court reached this conclusion despite having repeat- edly held that an overruling of precedent is a signifcant change in the law. See id., at , P. d, at (The “ `archetype of such a change occurs when an appellate court overrules previously binding case law' ”). The Court granted certiorari to address whether the Ari- zona Supreme Court's holding that Lynch was not a signif- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court cant change in the law for purposes of Rule .(g) is an adequate and independent state-law ground for the judg- ment. It is not. I A Cruz argued at trial and on direct appeal that the trial court violated his due process rights under Simmons by not allowing him to inform the jury that the only sentencing al- ternative to death in his case was life without parole. Prior to Cruz's trial, this Court had repeatedly reaffrmed Simmons' holding. In case after case, the Court explained that when “a capital defendant's future dangerousness is at issue, and the only sentencing alternative to death available to the jury is life imprisonment without possibility of parole, due process entitles the defendant `to inform the jury of [his] parole ineligibility, either by a jury instruction or in argu- ments by counsel.' ” Shafer v. South Carolina, U. S. , () (quoting Ramdass v. Angelone, U. S. , () (plurality opinion)); see also Kelly v. South Carolina, U. S. , , – (). The same year this Court decided Simmons, Arizona amended its parole statute to abolish parole for all felonies committed after . Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § –.(I) () (). Nevertheless, Arizona's capital sentencing stat- ute continued to list two alternatives to death: () “natural life,” which barred release “on any basis,” and () “life” with the possibility of “release” after at least years. § – (A). Because of the elimination of parole, however, the only “release” available to capital defendants convicted after was, and remains, executive clemency. Despite the elimination of parole for capital defendants, the Arizona Supreme Court held, in a series of cases commencing with Cruz's direct appeal, that Simmons did not apply in Arizona because the State's sentencing scheme was suffciently distinct from the one at issue in Sim- Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Opinion of the Court mons. That line of cases culminated in State v. Lynch, Ariz. , P. d (). There, the Arizona Supreme Court refused to apply Simmons on the ground that Lynch could have received a life sentence under § –(A) and thus been eligible for “executive clemency” after years. Ariz., at –, P. d, at –. This Court summarily reversed in Lynch v. Arizona, U. S. , holding that Simmons applies with full force in Arizona. The Court noted that “Simmons expressly re- jected the argument that the possibility of clemency dimin- ishes a capital defendant's right to inform a jury of his parole ineligibility.” U. S., at . The Court also observed that Simmons foreclosed the State's alternative argument that relied on the potential for future legislative reforms to Arizona's parole statute. U. S., at . B In , Cruz was convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of a Tucson police offcer. Cruz's conviction oc- curred over a decade after the decision in Simmons, but be- came fnal before the decision in Lynch. At trial, Cruz repeatedly sought to inform the jury of his parole ineligibility. Citing Simmons, Cruz expressed con- cern that unless he had “the opportunity to present the miti- gating factor that he will not be released from prison,” jurors would be left to “speculate” about Arizona's capital sentenc- ing scheme and whether it allows for parole. App. –. The trial court “conclude[d] that Simmons is distinguish- able” and did not act on Cruz's concern. Id., at . Cruz also informed the trial court of his intent to call as a witness the chairman of the Arizona Board of Execu- See, e. g., State v. Benson, Ariz. , , P. d , (); State v. Hardy, Ariz. , , P. d , (); State v. Chappell, Ariz. , , P. d , (); State v. Hargrave, Ariz. , –, P. d , – (); State v. Garcia, Ariz. , , P. d , (). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tive Clemency to testify that the board no longer had au- thority to parole any capital defendants. In response, the State sought to prevent Cruz from offering evidence as to “the prospects of parole for an inmate sentenced to life im- prisonment.” Id., at . The trial court precluded the testimony. During the aggravation/mitigation phase of an Arizona capital trial, the jury must frst determine whether an aggra- vating circumstance exists. The jury here found a single aggravating factor that Cruz knowingly killed a police off- cer. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § –(F)() () (re- numbered as § –(F)()). The jury then heard from defense witnesses who testifed to Cruz's good behavior in prison, his abuse and neglect as a child, his posttraumatic stress disorder, and his history of drug use, including around the time of the offense. After counsel made closing arguments, the judge in- structed the jury that Cruz was eligible for three penalties: () “Death by lethal injection”; () “Life imprisonment with no possibility of parole or release from imprisonment on any basis”; and () “Life imprisonment with a possibility of parole or release from imprisonment” after years. App. . The reference to parole was plainly wrong. See Lynch, U. S., at (the only “release” available under Arizona law is executive clemency, not parole). The judge further in- structed the jury that its only choice was whether or not to sentence Cruz to death; if the jury did not vote for death, the judge would then choose between the two remaining possible sentences. The jury sentenced Cruz to death. Three jurors, unprompted by Cruz, issued a press release the next day. The jurors explained that this had been a “gut-wrenching decision” and that “[t]here was not one per- son on the jury who did not cry.” App. . They reported that they would rather have voted for life without the possi- bility of parole, but that they were not given that option. A fourth juror later stated in a declaration: “If I could have Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Opinion of the Court voted for a life sentence without parole, I would have voted for that option.” Id., at . Cruz thereafter moved for a new trial, arguing that the instructions did not give the jury “an accurate and complete understanding of the consequences of a non-death verdict.” Id., at . The trial judge denied the motion. He con- cluded, erroneously, that the jury had been “correctly in- structed on the law,” and found it “entirely speculative” whether Cruz would be considered for parole after years. Id., at –. On direct appeal, Cruz again pressed his Simmons claim. The Arizona Supreme Court rejected it. Repeating the same legal error made by the trial court, the court reasoned that Simmons was distinguishable because “[n]o state law would have prohibited Cruz's release on parole after serving twenty-fve years.” Cruz, Ariz., at , P. d, at . Having raised his Simmons claim on direct review, Cruz was precluded from raising it again in his initial state post- conviction petition. See Ariz. Rule Crim. Proc. .(a)(). C After Cruz's conviction became fnal, this Court decided Lynch, thereby reaffrming that Simmons applies in Ari- zona. Cruz then fled a successive motion for state postcon- viction relief pursuant to Arizona Rule of Criminal Proce- dure .(g). That Rule permits a successive petition for postconviction relief if “there has been a signifcant change in the law that, if applicable to the defendant's case, would probably overturn the defendant's judgment or sentence.” Cruz argued that Lynch was a signifcant change in the law because it “had transformative effects on previously binding Arizona law.” App. . The Arizona Supreme Court denied relief after holding that Lynch was “not a signifcant change in the law.” Ariz., at , P. d, at . As the Arizona Supreme Court itself noted, it had interpreted Rule .(g) to require Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court “ `some transformative event, a clear break from the past.' ” Id., at , P. d, at (quoting State v. Shrum, Ariz. , , P. d , ()). “ `The archetype of such a change occurs when an appellate court overrules previously binding case law.' ” Ibid. Nevertheless, the Ar- izona Supreme Court held that Lynch was not a signifcant change in the law because “the law relied upon by the Su- preme Court in [Lynch]—Simmons—was clearly established at the time of Cruz's trial . . . despite the misapplication of that law by the Arizona courts.” Ariz., at , P. d, at . In so holding, the Arizona Supreme Court rejected Cruz's argument that Lynch should qualify as a signifcant change in the law under Rule .(g) “because it signifcantly changed how Arizona applied federal law.” Ariz., at , P. d, at . The Arizona Supreme Court re- sponded, without citation to any of its prior cases, that Rule .(g) requires “a signifcant change in the law, whether state or federal—not a signifcant change in the application of the law.” Ibid. (emphasis in original). This Court granted Cruz's petition for certiorari, U. S. ––– (), limited to the question whether the Arizona Supreme Court's holding that Rule .(g) precluded post- conviction relief is an adequate and independent state-law ground for the judgment. II “This Court will not take up a question of federal law in a case `if the decision of [the state] court rests on a state law ground that is independent of the federal question and ade- quate to support the judgment.' ” Lee v. Kemna, U. S. , () (quoting Coleman v. Thompson, U. S. , () (emphasis added in Kemna)). Here the Court fo- cuses on the second of these requirements: adequacy. “The question whether a state procedural ruling is ade- quate is itself a question of federal law.” Beard v. Kindler, U. S. , (). Ordinarily, a violation of a state pro- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Opinion of the Court cedural rule that is “ `frmly established and regularly fol- lowed' . . . will be adequate to foreclose review of a federal claim.” Lee, U. S., at . Nevertheless, in “excep- tional cases,” a “generally sound rule” may be applied in a way that “renders the state ground inadequate to stop con- sideration of a federal question.” Ibid. This is one of those exceptional cases. In particular, this case implicates this Court's rule, re- served for the rarest of situations, that “an unforeseeable and unsupported state-court decision on a question of state procedure does not constitute an adequate ground to pre- clude this Court's review of a federal question.” Bouie v. City of Columbia, U. S. , (). “Novelty in procedural requirements cannot be permitted to thwart re- view in this Court applied for by those who, in justifed reli- ance upon prior decisions, seek vindication in state courts of their federal constitutional rights.” NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, U. S. , – (). This Court has applied this principle for over a century. See, e. g., Enter- prise Irrigation Dist. v. Farmers Mut. Canal Co., U. S. , () (holding that a state ground was adequate where it was not “without fair support or so unfounded as to be essentially arbitrary or merely a device to prevent a review of the other [federal] ground of the judgment”). And this Court has continued to reaffrm this important rule. See Walker v. Martin, U. S. , () (“A state ground, no doubt, may be found inadequate when `discretion has been exercised to impose novel and unforeseeable requirements without fair or substantial support in prior state law' ” (quot- ing B C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § , p. (d ed. ) (Wright & Miller))). At issue here is the Arizona Supreme Court's decision that Cruz's motion for postconviction relief failed to satisfy Arizona Rule of Criminal Procedure .(g). Rule .(g) allows defendants to fle a successive or untimely postconvic- tion petition if there has been “a signifcant change in the Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court law.” Arizona courts have interpreted that phrase to re- quire a “transformative event, a `clear break from the past.' ” Shrum, Ariz., at , P. d, at (quoting State v. Slemmer, Ariz. , , P. d , () (some internal quotation marks omitted)). “The archetype of such a change occurs when an appellate court overrules pre- viously binding case law.” Shrum, Ariz., at , P. d, at . Straightforward application of these principles should have led to the conclusion that Lynch was a “signifcant change in the law” under Rule .(g). Lynch overruled binding Arizona precedent. Before Lynch, Arizona courts held that capital defendants were not entitled to inform the jury of their parole ineligibility. After Lynch, Arizona courts recognize that capital defendants have a due process right to provide the jury with that information when future dangerousness is at issue. It is hard to imagine a clearer break from the past. Instead of reaching that conclusion, however, the Arizona Supreme Court held that Lynch was not “a signifcant change in the law.” Ariz., at , P. d, at . It reasoned that Lynch could not be a signifcant change be- cause Lynch relied on Simmons, and Simmons “was clearly established at the time of Cruz's trial . . . despite the misap- plication of that law by the Arizona courts.” Ariz., at , P. d, at . The court added that it was not enough that Lynch changed how Arizona courts applied fed- eral law because “Rule .(g) requires a signifcant change in the law . . . not a signifcant change in the application of the law.” Ariz., at , P. d, at (emphasis in original). This interpretation of Rule .(g) is entirely new and in confict with prior Arizona case law. The State points to no other instance in which the overturning of binding Arizona precedent failed to satisfy Rule .(g)'s “signifcant change in the law” requirement. Nor has the State identifed any other Rule .(g) decision distinguishing between a Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Opinion of the Court “change in the law” and a “change in the application of the law.” Ibid. (emphasis in original). The application of Rule .(g) below is thus the opposite of frmly established and regularly followed. What makes the interpretation so novel is the way in which it disregards the effect of Lynch on the law in Arizona. Ordinarily, Arizona courts applying Rule .(g) focus on how a decision changes the law that is operative in Arizona, regardless of whether the intervening decision is a state or federal one. See, e. g., Shrum, Ariz., at , P. d, at (holding that a state decision did not satisfy Rule .(g) because it did not “overrule any prior opinion”); State v. Valencia, Ariz. , –, P. d , – () (fnding a “signifcant change in the law” where a prec- edent of this Court changed the law applied in Arizona); State v. Poblete, Ariz. , , P. d , (App. ) (same); see also State v. Bigger, Ariz. , , P. d , () (determining that a decision of this Court was not a “signifcant change in the law” in part be- cause it did not “effec[t] a change in Arizona law”). Here, however, the Arizona Supreme Court considered only whether there had been a signifcant change in federal law, disregarding the fact that Lynch overruled binding Arizona Supreme Court precedents, to dramatic effect for capital de- fendants in Arizona. The consequences of the interpretation below compound its novelty. Arizona requires a petitioner seeking Rule .(g) relief to establish not just a “signifcant change in the law,” but also that the law in question applies retroactively under this Court's analysis in Teague v. Lane, U. S. (). See, e. g., State v. Towery, Ariz. , , P. d , () (applying Teague). Under Arizona's long- standing Rule .(g) precedents, it is possible to satisfy both criteria. See, e. g., Order in State v. Rose, No. CR– –, pp. – (Super. Ct. Maricopa Cty., Ariz., Aug. , ) (determining in another case, prior to the decision Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court below, that Lynch was both a “signifcant change in the law” and satisfed retroactivity because it “merely applied the rule of Simmons”). On the interpretation adopted below, how- ever, it is impossible for Cruz, and similarly situated capital defendants, to obtain relief. To show retroactivity, Cruz argued before the Arizona Supreme Court that Lynch ap- plied “settled” federal law. Under the decision below, how- ever, that same argument implies that Lynch was not a “signifcant change in the law.” The fact that the Arizona Supreme Court's decision in this case generates this catch- , whereas earlier Rule .(g) decisions did not, further underscores the novelty of the decision and its departure from pre-existing Arizona Supreme Court law. Under these unusual circumstances, the Arizona Supreme Court's application of Rule .(g) to Lynch was so novel and unfounded that it does not constitute an adequate state procedural ground. It is therefore not necessary to reach the further issue whether the decision below is independent of federal law. III The State and the dissent offer various reformulations of the argument that Lynch was not a “signifcant change in the law” for Rule .(g) purposes, but each fails to grapple with the basic point that Lynch reversed previously binding Arizona Supreme Court precedent. Both the State and the dissent argue that the Arizona Su- preme Court was justifed in treating Lynch differently than other transformative decisions of this Court, such as Ring v. Arizona, U. S. (), and Padilla v. Kentucky, U. S. (), because Lynch was a summary reversal and so did not “impos[e] a new or changed interpretation of state The Court also does not need to reach Cruz's additional arguments that the decision below refects an attitude of hostility toward Simmons v. South Carolina, U. S. () (plurality opinion), and Lynch v. Ari- zona, U. S. () (per curiam), and impermissibly discriminates against federal law by nullifying Cruz's rights under Simmons. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Opinion of the Court or federal law.” Brief for Respondent . As the dissent puts the argument: Lynch “did not change the law in Ari- zona.” Post, at (opinion of Barrett, J.). These arguments miss the point. While Lynch did not change this Court's interpretation of Simmons, it did change the operative (and mistaken) interpretation of Simmons by Arizona courts. Lynch thus changed the law in Arizona in the way that matters for purposes of Rule .(g): It over- ruled previously binding Arizona Supreme Court precedent preventing capital defendants from informing the jury of their parole ineligibility. Contrary to the dissent, post, at –, it makes no differ- ence that Lynch did not alter federal law. While Arizona Supreme Court decisions applying Rule .(g) to federal de- cisions such as Ring and Padilla have understandably noted the effect those decisions had on both federal and state law, the analytic focus of Arizona courts has always been on the impact to Arizona law. See supra, at ; see also Towery, Ariz., at , P. d, at (Ring “imposes a new bur- den on the state. Thus we conclude that Ring [satisfes Rule .(g)]”). That focus is unsurprising given that Rule .(g) is a state procedural rule governing the availability of state postconviction relief in state court. The State next objects that a decision against it would forestall Arizona's ability to “fesh out” its Rule .(g) juris- prudence in new contexts. Tr. of Oral Arg. . That is in- correct. The Arizona Supreme Court is free to extend its prior Rule .(g) jurisprudence, including by applying the Rule to new situations as they arise. What the Arizona Su- preme Court cannot do is foreclose federal review by adopt- At oral argument, the State also argued that Lynch, at the very least, was not a “signifcant” change in the law. Tr. of Oral Arg. –. By any measure, though, Lynch was a “transformative event,” State v. Shrum, Ariz. , , P. d , (), in Arizona. In fact, the State conceded Lynch was a “clear break” from the past in Arizona courts. Tr. of Oral Arg. . Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court ing a “ `novel and unforeseeable' ” approach to Rule .(g) that lacks “ `fair or substantial support in prior state law.' ” Walker, U. S., at (quoting B Wright & Miller § , at ). The dissent argues that this case did present a new con- text because the Arizona Supreme Court had never before applied Rule .(g) to a summary reversal. There was no reason, however, to treat this case any differently than past cases. Whereas the Arizona Supreme Court had previously looked to the effect of an intervening federal or state deci- sion on Arizona law, supra, at , here it focused exclusively on whether there had been a change in federal law. The court thus disregarded that Lynch overruled “previously binding case law” in Arizona, the “archetype” of a signifcant change in the law. Shrum, Ariz., at , P. d, at . Finally, the dissent attempts to draw a parallel between Rule .(g) and certain procedural rules governing federal The Arizona Supreme Court claims it was acting consistently with its Shrum decision in this case. Ariz., at , P. d, at . That assertion does not stand up under inspection. In Shrum, the Arizona Supreme Court held that an Arizona decision did not constitute a “signif- cant change in the law” because it “did not change any interpretation of Arizona constitutional law . . . and no precedent was overruled, all of which meant `the law remained precisely the same.' ” Ariz., at , P. d, at (quoting Shrum, Ariz., at , P. d, at ). In this case, the court reasoned it was acting consistently with Shrum be- cause Lynch “did not change any interpretation of federal constitutional law . . . and no Supreme Court precedent was overruled or modifed.” Ariz., at , P. d, at . The language used, however, reveals the inconsistency. While in Shrum the Arizona Supreme Court looked for a change in Arizona law, including whether any “precedent was over- ruled,” in this case the court instead asked only whether federal law had changed or whether federal “Supreme Court precedent was overruled.” No precedent of the Supreme Court of the United States was overruled, but precedent of the Arizona Supreme Court certainly was. Under the Arizona Supreme Court's ordinary approach, then, there was a “signifcant change in the law.” Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Barrett, J., dissenting prisoners seeking to fle delayed or successive § mo- tions. See U. S. C. §§(f), (h). The parallel breaks down, however, because the rules are different. Unlike § (h)(), which requires “a new rule of [federal] constitu- tional law,” and §(f)(), which requires a right “newly recognized by the [U. S.] Supreme Court,” the relevant por- tion of Arizona's Rule .(g) simply requires “a signifcant change in the law.” As the Arizona Supreme Court has re- peatedly interpreted that Rule, Lynch should qualify be- cause it overruled binding Arizona precedent, creating a clear break from the past in Arizona courts. The Arizona Supreme Court's contrary decision was unprecedented and unforeseeable. Only violations of state rules that are “ `frmly established and regularly followed' . . . will be ade- quate to foreclose review of a federal claim.” Lee, U. S., at . That standard is not met here. * * * In exceptional cases where a state-court judgment rests on a novel and unforeseeable state-court procedural decision lacking fair or substantial support in prior state law, that decision is not adequate to preclude review of a federal ques- tion. The Arizona Supreme Court applied Rule .(g) in a manner that abruptly departed from and directly conficted with its prior interpretations of that Rule. Accordingly, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. It is so ordered. Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Thomas, Justice Alito, and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting. The adequate and independent state grounds doctrine is the product of two fundamental features of our jurisdiction. First, this Court is powerless to revise a state court's inter- pretation of its own law. Murdock v. Memphis, Wall. , Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting (). We thus cannot disturb state-court rulings on state-law questions that are independent of federal law. Second, Article III empowers federal courts to render judg- ments, not advisory opinions. Hayburn's Case, Dall. (). So if an independent state ground of decision is ade- quate to sustain the judgment, we lack jurisdiction over the entire dispute. Anything we said about alternative federal grounds would not affect the ultimate resolution of the case and would therefore be advisory. Herb v. Pitcairn, U. S. , (). The Court holds that the Arizona Supreme Court's appli- cation of Rule .(g) is inadequate to support the judgment below. That assertion is jarring, because the bar for fnding inadequacy is extraordinarily high. When, as here, the ar- gument is based on the state court's inconsistent or novel application of its law, the bar is met only by a decision so blatantly disingenuous that it reveals hostility to federal rights or those asserting them. See Walker v. Martin, U. S. , (). Given the respect we owe state courts, that is not a conclusion we should be quick to draw—and ordinarily, we are not quick to draw it. NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson illustrates how un- principled a state-court decision must be before we treat it as inadequate. U. S. (). There, the NAACP asked the Alabama Supreme Court to vacate a civil contempt order as unconstitutional. That court denied review on the ground that the NAACP had improperly pursued a writ of certiorari, when it should have sought a writ of mandamus. Id., at –. We held this procedural ruling inadequate because it was irreconcilable with the Alabama Supreme Court's “past unambiguous holdings.” Id., at . Though a multitude of that court's own precedents contradicted its ruling, one in particular stood out: The court had evaluated similar constitutional claims brought by a petitioner in ca- hoots with the Ku Klux Klan, even though he had also pur- sued a writ of certiorari. Id., at –. The subtext of CRUZ v. ARIZONA Barrett, J., dissenting the Alabama Supreme Court's decision unmistakably re- vealed its hostility toward the NAACP's federal rights. See also Ford v. Georgia, U. S. , () (Georgia Su- preme Court decision was inadequate because it applied precedent that was inapplicable “by its own terms”); Barr v. City of Columbia, U. S. , – () (South Caro- lina Supreme Court ruling was inadequate because that court had proceeded differently in an “identical” case a few weeks later). Today's Court, while admitting that the novelty prong of inadequacy is “reserved for the rarest of situations,” ante, at , concludes that the Arizona Supreme Court's application of Rule .(g) falls in the same category as Patterson. I respectfully disagree. Unlike the state courts in cases like Patterson, the Arizona Supreme Court did not contradict its own settled law. Instead, it confronted a new question and gave an answer reasonably consistent with its precedent. The ordinary rule in Arizona is that criminal defendants must present any constitutional challenges on direct review or in a timely postconviction-review petition. Ariz. Rules Crim. Proc. .(a), .(b)()(A) (). Rule .(g) allows a second or delayed bite at the postconviction-relief apple when “there has been a signifcant change in the law that, if applicable to the defendant's case, would probably overturn the defendant's judgment or sentence.” On several occasions, the Arizona Supreme Court has ad- dressed whether an intervening judicial decision constitutes a “signifcant change in the law” for purposes of Rule .(g). For instance, it has considered whether this Court's decisions signifcantly changed the content of federal law. E. g., State v. Bigger, Ariz. , , P. d , () (a decision that “affrmed the Supreme Court's jurisprudence” was not a signifcant change); State v. Valencia, Ariz. , , P. d , (); see also State v. Poblete, Ariz. , , P. d , (App. ). It has also analyzed whether intervening state-court decisions sig- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting nifcantly changed Arizona law. E. g., State v. Shrum, Ariz. , –, P. d , – (); State v. Slemmer, Ariz. , , , P. d , , (); State v. Rendon, Ariz. , , P. d , (). Cruz's case, however, raised a question of frst impression: whether a “signifcant change” occurs when an intervening decision reaffrms existing law, but rectifes an erroneous ap- plication of that law. That was the effect of Lynch v. Ari- zona, U. S. () (per curiam), which corrected the Arizona Supreme Court's application of Simmons v. South Carolina, U. S. (), and its progeny. An inter- vening decision like Lynch, which undisputedly did not change any legal doctrine, has no analog in Arizona's Rule .(g) jurisprudence. See ante, at (Lynch “reaffrm[ed] that Simmons applies in Arizona” (emphasis added)). So the Arizona Supreme Court devised a rule: “Rule .(g) re- quires a signifcant change in the law, whether state or fed- eral—not a signifcant change in the application of the law.” Ariz. , , P. d , (). By that stand- ard, Lynch did not satisfy Rule .(g). Ariz., at , P. d, at . The Court criticizes the “novelty” of the Arizona Supreme Court's law versus application-of-law distinction, as it does not appear in any other Arizona precedent. Ante, at –. A point that deserves emphasis at the outset: Novelty does not mean that a rule is inadequate merely because a state court announced it for the frst time in the decision under review, and I do not understand the Court to suggest other- wise. Legal systems based on precedent depend on cases to present novel fact patterns, which enable courts to articulate new principles of law or to clarify old ones with greater pre- cision. Beard v. Kindler, U. S. , () (Kennedy, J., concurring). We do a disservice to that mode of legal development when we “disregard a state procedural ground that was not in all respects explicit before the case when it was frst announced”—unless, of course, the decision demon- Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Barrett, J., dissenting strates “a purpose or pattern to evade constitutional guaran- tees.” Ibid. That is why we have been careful to explain that, in the inadequacy context, a decision is “ `novel' ” only when it was wholly “ `unforeseeable' ” and lacked any “ `fair or substantial support in prior state law.' ” Walker, U. S., at (quoting B C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § , p. (d ed. )). The Court's real objection is that it thinks the Arizona Supreme Court violated its own Rule .(g) precedent by holding that Lynch is not a signifcant change in law. For one, the Court says, the Arizona Supreme Court has pre- viously explained that “ `[t]he archetype' ” of a signifcant change occurs “ `when an appellate court overrules pre- viously binding case law,' ” and Lynch overruled binding Ari- zona case law. Ante, at (quoting Shrum, Ariz., at , P. d, at ). In isolation, that language does suggest that Lynch is a “signifcant change” for purposes of Rule .(g). Context, however, shows there is more to the story: Shrum illustrated its point with the example of Ring v. Ari- zona, U. S. (), which was a signifcant change because it overruled our contrary decision in Walton v. Ari- zona, U. S. (). Ariz., at –, P. d, at – (citing State v. Towery, Ariz. , , P. d , ()). Unlike Lynch, Ring changed the governing legal doctrine, not a mistaken application of that doctrine. So Shrum's reasoning is not inconsistent with the result below. The Court also asserts that Arizona courts typically ana- lyze how an intervening decision affects the law in Arizona, so by that logic, decisions like Lynch that change the law's on-the-ground application in Arizona constitute grounds for relief under Rule .(g). Ante, at . I do not read the Arizona Supreme Court's “past unambiguous holdings” to say as much. Patterson, U. S., at . The closest ex- ample the Court offers is State v. Valencia, Ariz. , P. d (), in which the Arizona Supreme Court Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., dissenting considered whether Miller v. Alabama, U. S. (), constituted a signifcant change in law. Ariz., at , P. d, at . The court observed that pre-Miller, “Ari- zona law” allowed trial courts to impose life sentences on juveniles “without distinguishing crimes that refected `ir- reparable corruption' rather than the `transient immaturity of youth.' ” Valencia, Ariz., at , P. d, at . Miller, in holding that trial courts must weigh such consider- ations before imposing a life sentence on juveniles, changed Eighth Amendment doctrine and therefore changed the law in Arizona. Ariz., at , P. d, at ; see also Montgomery v. Louisiana, U. S. , , (). Lynch, by contrast, did not change the content of federal law and therefore did not change the law in Arizona. If the Arizona Supreme Court's distinction between a change in law and a change in the application of law seems familiar, it should—federal habeas law draws the same line. Take everything about this case and transplant it to federal court: A federal defendant is wrongfully denied a Simmons instruction, the Court of Appeals's understanding of Sim- mons is later summarily reversed in Lynch, and the defend- ant (now a prisoner) then tries to obtain the beneft of Lynch through a successive or delayed motion for postconviction relief.* In this scenario, the federal prisoner faces the same dilemma that Cruz faces in Arizona. Pre-Lynch, the Court of Appeals was unreceptive to the Simmons claim. Post- Lynch, the prisoner's claim is procedurally barred: Lynch is not “a new rule of constitutional law” or a “newly recog- nized” right because it merely applies an old rule, Simmons. U. S. C. §§(f)(), (h)(). If federal law limits a prison- er's Simmons claim to an initial, timely motion, we should not be surprised that Arizona has made a similar choice. *This hypothetical is inapposite to Cruz's pending federal habeas action, which appears to be a timely, initial federal fling. See Cruz v. Ryan, WL , * (D Ariz., Mar. , ), appeal docketed sub nom. Cruz v. Credio, No. – (CA, Apr. , ). Page Proof Pending Publication CRUZ v. ARIZONA Barrett, J., dissenting And we have cautioned before that “[f]ederal habeas courts must not lightly `disregard state procedural rules that are substantially similar to those to which we give full force in our own courts.' ” Johnson v. Lee, U. S. , () (per curiam) (quoting Kindler, U. S., at ). The Court makes a case for why the Arizona Supreme Court's interpretation of its own precedent is wrong. If I were on the Arizona Supreme Court, I might agree. But that call is not within our bailiwick. Our job is to determine whether the Arizona Supreme Court's decision is defensible, and we owe the utmost deference to the state court in mak- ing that judgment. Cases of inadequacy are extremely rare, and this is not one. I respectfully dissent. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: None