PRELIMINARY PRINT Volume U. S. Part Pages – OFFICIAL REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT May , REBECCA A. WOMELDORF reporter of decisions Page Proof Pending Publication NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. , pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors. OCTOBER TERM, Syllabus NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL et al. v. ROSS, SECRETARY OF THE CALIFORNIA DEPART- MENT OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, et al. certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit No. –. Argued October , —Decided May , This case involves a challenge to a California law known as Proposition , which as relevant here forbids the in-state sale of whole pork meat that comes from breeding pigs (or their immediate offspring) that are “confined in a cruel manner.” Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. § (b)(). Confnement is “cruel” if it prevents a pig from “lying down, standing up, fully extending [its] limbs, or turning around freely.” § (e)(). Prior to the vote on Proposition , proponents suggested the law would beneft animal welfare and consumer health, and oppo- nents claimed that existing farming practices did better than Proposi- tion protecting animal welfare (for example, by preventing pig-on-pig aggression) and ensuring consumer health (by avoiding contamination). Shortly after Proposition 's adoption, two organizations—the National Pork Producers Council and the American Farm Bureau Federation (petitioners)—fled this lawsuit on behalf of their members who raise and process pigs alleging that Proposition violates the U. S. Constitu- tion by impermissibly burdening interstate commerce. Petitioners es- timated that the cost of compliance with Proposition will increase production costs and will fall on both California and out-of-state produc- ers. But because California imports almost all the pork it consumes, most of Proposition 's compliance costs will be borne by out-of-state frms. The district court held that petitioners' complaint failed to state a claim as a matter of law and dismissed the case. The Ninth Circuit affrmed. Held: The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is affrmed. F. th , affrmed. Justice Gorsuch delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Parts IV–B, IV–C, and IV–D, rejecting petitioners' theories that would place Proposition in violation of the dormant Commerce Clause even though petitioners do not allege the law purposefully discriminates against out-of-state economic interests. Pp. –, –. (a) The Constitution vests Congress with the power to “regulate Commerce . . . among the several States.” Art. I, § , cl. . Although Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus Congress may seek to exercise this power to regulate the interstate trade of pork, and many pork producers have urged Congress to do so, Congress has yet to adopt any statute that might displace Proposition or laws regulating pork production in other States. Petitioners' liti- gation theory thus rests on the dormant Commerce Clause theory, pur- suant to which the Commerce Clause not only vests Congress with the power to regulate interstate trade, but also “contain[s] a further, nega- tive command,” one effectively forbidding the enforcement of “certain state [economic regulations] even when Congress has failed to legislate on the subject.” Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. Jefferson Lines, Inc., U. S. , . This Court has held that state laws offend this dormant aspect of the Commerce Clause when they seek to “build up . . . domestic commerce” through “burdens upon the industry and business of other States.” Guy v. Baltimore, U. S. , . At the same time, though, the Court has reiterated that, absent purposeful discrimination, “a State may exclude from its territory, or prohibit the sale therein of any articles which, in its judgment, fairly exercised, are prejudicial to” the interests of its citizens. Ibid. The antidiscrimination principle lies at the “very core” of the Court's dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. Camps Newfound/Owa- tonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, U. S. , . This Court has said that the Commerce Clause prohibits the enforcement of state laws “driven by . . . `economic protectionism—that is, regulatory measures designed to beneft in-state economic interests by burdening out-of-state competitors.' ” Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , – (quoting New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, U. S. , – ). Petitioners here disavow any discrimination-based claim, con- ceding that Proposition imposes the same burdens on in-state pork producers that it imposes on out-of-state pork producers. Pp. –. (b) Given petitioners' concession that Proposition does not impli- cate the antidiscrimination principle, petitioners frst invoke what they call the “extraterritoriality doctrine.” They contend that the Court's dormant Commerce Clause cases suggest an additional and “almost per se” rule forbidding enforcement of state laws that have the “practi- cal effect of controlling commerce outside the State,” even when those laws do not purposely discriminate against out-of-state interests. Peti- tioners further insist that Proposition offends this “almost per se” rule because the law will impose substantial new costs on out-of-state pork producers who wish to sell their products in California. Petition- ers contend the rule they propose follows ineluctably from three cases: Healy v. Beer Institute, U. S. ; Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. v. New York State Liquor Authority, U. S. ; and Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., U. S. . But a close look at those cases NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Syllabus reveals that each typifes the familiar concern with preventing purpose- ful discrimination against out-of-state economic interests. In Baldwin, a New York law that barred out-of-state dairy farmers from selling their milk in the State for less than the minimum price New York law guaran- teed in-state producers “plainly discriminate[d]” against out-of-staters by “erecting an economic barrier protecting a major local industry against competition from without the State.” Dean Milk Co. v. Madi- son, U. S. , (discussing Baldwin). In Brown-Forman, a New York law that required liquor distillers to affrm that their in-state prices were no higher than their out-of-state prices impermissibly sought to force out-of-state distillers to “surrender” whatever cost ad- vantages they enjoyed against their in-state rivals, which amounted to economic protectionism. U. S., at . The Court reached a similar conclusion in Healy, which involved a Connecticut law that required out-of-state beer merchants to affrm that their in-state prices were no higher than those they charged in neigh- boring States. U. S., at –. As the Court later explained, “[t]he essential vice in laws” like Connecticut's is that they “hoard” com- merce “for the beneft of” in-state merchants and discourage consumers from crossing state lines to make their purchases from nearby out-of- state vendors. C & A Carbone, Inc. v. Clarkstown, U. S. , –. Petitioners insist that Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy taken to- gether suggest an “almost per se” rule against state laws with “extrater- ritorial effects.” While petitioners point to language in these cases pertaining to the “practical effect” of the challenged laws on out-of-state commerce and prices, “the language of an opinion is not always to be parsed as though we were dealing with language of a statute.” Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., U. S. , . The language highlighted by peti- tioners in Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy appeared in a particular context and did particular work. A close look at those cases reveals nothing like the “almost per se” rule against laws that have the “practi- cal effect” of “controlling” extraterritorial commerce that petitioners posit, and indeed petitioners' reading would cast a shadow over laws long understood to represent valid exercises of the States' constitution- ally reserved powers. Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy did not mean to do so much. In rejecting petitioners' “almost per se” theory the Court does not mean to trivialize the role territory and sovereign boundaries play in the federal system; the Constitution takes great care to provide rules for fxing and changing state borders. Art. IV, § , cl. . Courts must sometimes referee disputes about where one State's authority ends and another's begins—both inside and outside the com- mercial context. Indeed, the antidiscrimination principle found in the Court's dormant Commerce Clause cases may well represent one more Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus effort to mediate competing claims of sovereign authority under our hori- zontal separation of powers. But none of this means, as petitioners sup- pose, that any question about the ability of a State to project its power extraterritorially must yield to an “almost per se” rule under the dor- mant Commerce Clause. This Court has never before claimed so much “ground for judicial supremacy under the banner of the dormant Com- merce Clause.” United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, U. S. , –. Pp. –. (c) Petitioners next point to Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. , which they assert requires a court to at least assess “ `the burden im- posed on interstate commerce' ” by a state law and prevent its enforce- ment if the law's burdens are “ `clearly excessive in relation to the puta- tive local benefts.' ” Brief for Petitioners . Petitioners provide a litany of reasons why they believe the benefts Proposition secures for Californians do not outweigh the costs it imposes on out-of-state economic interests. Petitioners overstate the extent to which Pike and its progeny depart from the antidiscrimination rule that lies at the core of the Court's dor- mant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. As this Court has previously explained, “no clear line” separates the Pike line of cases from core antidiscrimination precedents. General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , , n. . If some cases focus on whether a state law dis- criminates on its face, the Pike line serves as an important reminder that a law's practical effects may also disclose the presence of a discrimi- natory purpose. Pike itself concerned an Arizona order requiring can- taloupes grown in state to be processed and packed in state. U. S., at –. The Court held that Arizona's order violated the dormant Commerce Clause, stressing that even if that order could be fairly char- acterized as facially neutral, it “requir[ed] business operations to be per- formed in [state] that could more effciently be performed elsewhere.” Id., at . The “practical effect[s]” of the order in operation thus re- vealed a discriminatory purpose—an effort to insulate in-state process- ing and packaging businesses from out-of-state competition. Id., at . While this Court has left the “courtroom door open” to challenges prem- ised on “even nondiscriminatory burdens,” Davis, U. S., at , and while “a small number of our cases have invalidated state laws . . . that appear to have been genuinely nondiscriminatory,” Tracy, U. S., at , n. , petitioners' claim about Proposition falls well outside Pike's heartland. Pp. –. (d) The Framers equipped Congress with considerable power to regu- late interstate commerce and preempt contrary state laws. See U. S. Const., Art. I, § , cl. ; Art. IV, § . While this Court has inferred an additional judicially enforceable rule against certain state laws adopted even against the backdrop of congressional silence, the Court's cases NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Syllabus also suggest extreme caution is warranted in its exercise. Disavowing reliance on this Court's core dormant Commerce Clause teachings fo- cused on discriminatory state legislation, petitioners invite the Court to endorse new theories of implied judicial power. They would have the Court recognize an “almost per se” rule against the enforcement of state laws that have “extraterritorial effects”—even though it has long recog- nized that virtually all state laws create ripple effects beyond their bor- ders. Alternatively, they would have the Court prevent a State from regulating the sale of an ordinary consumer good within its own borders on nondiscriminatory terms—even though the Pike line of cases they invoke has never before yielded such a result. Like the courts that faced this case below, this Court declines both incautious invitations. Pp. –. Justice Gorsuch, joined by Justice Thomas and Justice Bar- rett, concluded in Part IV–B that, accepting petitioners' allegations, the Pike balancing task that they propose in this case is one no court is equipped to undertake. Some out-of-state producers who choose to comply with Proposition may incur new costs, while the law serves moral and health interests of some magnitude for in-state residents. In a functioning democracy, those sorts of policy choices—balancing com- peting, incommensurable goods—belong to the people and their elected representatives. Pp. –. Justice Gorsuch, joined by Justice Thomas, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan, concluded in Part IV–C that the allegations in the complaint were insuffcient as a matter of law to demonstrate a substan- tial burden on interstate commerce, a showing Pike requires before a court may assess the law's competing benefts or weigh the two sides against each other, and that the facts pleaded merely allege harm to some producers' favored “methods of operation” which the Court found insuffcient to state a claim in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. , . Pp. –. Justice Gorsuch, joined by Justice Thomas and Justice Bar- rett, concluded in Part IV–D that petitioners have not asked the Court to treat putative harms to out-of-state animal welfare or other noneco- nomic interests as freestanding harms cognizable under the dormant Commerce Clause, and in any event that the Court's decisions authoriz- ing claims alleging “burdens on commerce,” Davis, U. S., at , do not provide judges “a roving license” to reassess the wisdom of state legislation in light of any conceivable out-of-state interest, economic or otherwise, United Haulers, U. S., at . Pp. –. Justice Sotomayor, joined by Justice Kagan, concluded that the judgment should be affrmed, not because courts are incapable of balanc- ing economic burdens against noneconomic benefts as Pike requires or Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus because of any other fundamental reworking of that doctrine, but be- cause petitioners fail to plausibly allege a substantial burden on inter- state commerce as required by Pike. Pp. –. Justice Barrett concluded that the judgment should be affrmed because Pike balancing requires both the benefts and burdens of a state law to be judicially cognizable and comparable, see Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , –, but the benefts and burdens of Proposition are incommensurable; that said, the complaint plausibly alleges a substantial burden on interstate commerce because Proposition 's costs are pervasive, burdensome, and will be felt pri- marily (but not exclusively) outside California. Pp. –. Gorsuch, J., announced the judgment of the Court, and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II, III, IV–A, and V, in which Thomas, Sotomayor, Kagan, and Barrett, JJ., joined, an opinion with respect to Parts IV–B and IV–D, in which Thomas and Barrett, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respect to Part IV–C, in which Thomas, Soto- mayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., fled an opinion concur- ring in part, in which Kagan, J., joined, post, p. . Barrett, J., fled an opinion concurring in part, post, p. . Roberts, C. J., fled an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which Alito, Kavanaugh, and Jackson, JJ., joined, post, p. . Kavanaugh, J., fled an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, post, p. . Timothy S. Bishop argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Brett E. Legner, Avi M. Kupfer, Dan Himmelfarb, Michael C. Formica, Ellen Steen, and Travis Cushman. Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause for the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Prelogar, Michael R. Huston, Michael S. Raab, and Thomas Pulham. Michael J. Mongan, Solicitor General of California, argued the cause for the state respondents. With him on the brief were Rob Bonta, Attorney General of California, Thomas S. Patterson, Senior Assistant Attorney General, Samuel T. Harbourt, Deputy Solicitor General, R. Matthew Wise and Mark R. Beckington, Supervising Deputy Attorneys Gen- eral, and Nicole Welindt, Associate Deputy Solicitor General. Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Counsel Jeffrey A. Lamken argued the cause for respondents Humane Society of the United States et al. With him on the brief were Michael G. Pattillo, Jr., Caleb Hayes-Deats, Bruce Wagman, and Jonathan Lovvorn.* *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the State of Indi- ana et al. by Theodore E. Rokita, Attorney General of Indiana, Thomas M. Fisher, Solicitor General, and Julia C. Payne and Melinda R. Holmes, Deputy Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respec- tive States as follows: Steve Marshall of Alabama, Mark Brnovich of Ari- zona, Leslie Rutledge of Arkansas, Christopher M. Carr of Georgia, Law- rence Wasden of Idaho, Tom Miller of Iowa, Derek Schmidt of Kansas, Daniel Cameron of Kentucky, Jeff Landry of Louisiana, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi, Eric Schmitt of Missouri, Austin Knudsen of Montana, Doug Peterson of Nebraska, John Formella of New Hampshire, Drew Wrigley of North Dakota, Dave Yost of Ohio, John M. O'Connor of Oklahoma, Alan Wilson of South Carolina, Jason R. Ravnsborg of South Dakota, Herbert H. Slatery III of Tennessee, Ken Paxton of Texas, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Jason Miyares of Virginia, Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia, and Bridget Hill of Wyoming; for the American Association of Swine Veteri- narians by Aaron D. Van Oort, Tyler A. Young, Nicholas J. Nelson, and Lance W. Lange; for the Association des Éleveurs de Canards et d'Oies du Québec et al. by Michael Tenenbaum; for the Association for Accessible Medicines by Jay P. Lefkowitz and Matthew D. Rowen; for the Buckeye Institute by Larry J. Obhof, Jr., and Robert Alt; for the Canadian Pork Council et al. by Roy T. Englert, Jr.; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America by Steffen N. Johnson and Michael W. McCon- nell; for the National Association of Manufacturers et al. by Sean Marotta, Patrick Hedren, and Karen R. Harned; for the National Taxpayers Union Foundation by Joseph D. Henchman and Tyler Martinez; for the North American Meat Institute by Paul J. Zidlicky and Eric D. McArthur; for the North Carolina Chamber Legal Institute et al. by Gene C. Schaerr and Erik S. Jaffe; for the Pacifc Legal Foundation by Deborah J. La Fetra and Aditya Dynar; for Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America by Allon Kedem, Jeffrey L. Handwerker, James C. Stansel, Me- lissa B. Kimmel, and Joanne Chan; for Protect the Harvest by Ira T. Kasdan; for the Retail Litigation Center, Inc., et al. by Beth S. Brink- mann, Deborah White, and Angelo I. Amador; for the State Pork Pro- ducers Association of Iowa et al. by Eldon McAfee and Christina Gruenha- gen; for the Washington Legal Foundation by John M. Masslon II and Cory L. Andrews; and for Michael Knoll et al. by Eric B. Wolff and Sopen B. Shah. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Illinois et al. by Kwame Raoul, Attorney General of Illinois, Jane Elinor Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Justice Gorsuch announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Parts IV–B, IV–C, and IV–D. What goods belong in our stores? Usually, consumer de- mand and local laws supply some of the answer. Recently, California adopted just such a law banning the in-state sale of certain pork products derived from breeding pigs confned in stalls so small they cannot lie down, stand up, or turn around. In response, two groups of out-of-state pork pro- Notz, Solicitor General, Sarah A. Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General, Chris- tina Hansen, Assistant Attorney General, by Dana Nessel, Attorney Gen- eral of Michigan, Fadwa A. Hammoud, Solicitor General, and Ann M. Sherman, Deputy Solicitor General, by Matthew J. Platkin, Acting Attor- ney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their respec- tive jurisdictions as follows: Philip J. Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Karl Racine of the District of Columbia, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Maura Healey of Massachusetts, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Letitia James of New York, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, and Robert W. Ferguson of Washington; for the American Public Health Association et al. by Henry Weisburg and Matthew G. Berkowitz; for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals by Jennifer H. Chin; for the Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc., by Bryan W. Pease; for Animal Protection Organizations et al. by Katherine A. Meyer; for the Association of California Egg Farmers by Thomas G. Saunders; for the Center for a Humane Economy et al. by Jessica L. Blome; for Constitutional Law Scholars by Eric B. Boettcher; for Eco- nomic Research Organizations by Benjamin D. Battles and Agatha M. Cole; for Federalism Scholars by Gregory M. Lipper; for the Global Animal Partnership et al. by Alethea Anne Swift, Jonathan S. Massey, and Wil- liam J. Friedman; for Historians by Sheldon Eisenberg; for the National League of Cities et al. by John J. Korzen; for the Northeast Organic Dairy Producers Alliance by Christopher J. Wright and Jason Neal; for the Per- due Premium Meat Co. by Mitchell Y. Mirviss; for the Physicians Commit- tee for Responsible Medicine by Corey Page; for Public Citizen by Nandan M. Joshi, Allison M. Zieve, and Scott L. Nelson; for Worker Safety Advo- cates by David S. Muraskin; for Dr. Leon Barringer by Elizabeth R. Moulton and Melanie R. Hallums; for Sen. Cory Booker by Glenn A. Danas; for Donald Broom et al. by Gregory G. Rapawy; for Barry Fried- man et al. by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and Brian R. Fra- zelle; for Jim Keen, DVM, Ph.D., et al. by Mark M. Leitner and Joseph NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ducers fled this lawsuit, arguing that the law unconstitution- ally interferes with their preferred way of doing business in violation of this Court's dormant Commerce Clause prece- dents. Both the district court and court of appeals dis- missed the producers' complaint for failing to state a claim. We affrm. Companies that choose to sell products in various States must normally comply with the laws of those various States. Assuredly, under this Court's dormant Commerce Clause decisions, no State may use its laws to discriminate purposefully against out-of-state economic in- terests. But the pork producers do not suggest that Califor- nia's law offends this principle. Instead, they invite us to fashion two new and more aggressive constitutional restric- tions on the ability of States to regulate goods sold within their borders. We decline that invitation. While the Con- stitution addresses many weighty issues, the type of pork chops California merchants may sell is not on that list. I Modern American grocery stores offer a dizzying array of choice. Often, consumers may choose among eggs that are large, medium, or small; eggs that are white, brown, or some other color; eggs from cage-free chickens or ones raised con- sistent with organic farming standards. When it comes to meat and fsh, the options are no less plentiful. Products may be marketed as free range, wild caught, or graded by quality (prime, choice, select, and beyond). The pork prod- ucts at issue here, too, sometimes come with “antibiotic-free” and “crate-free” labels. USDA, Report to Congress: Live- S. Goode; for O. Carter Snead et al. by Megan M. Wold; and for Mark Wu by Mr. Wu, pro se. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Agricultural and Resource Econom- ics Professors by Kathleen Hartnett and Adam S. Gershenson; for Butch- erBox by Joshua I. Schiller; for Small and Independent Farming Busi- nesses et al. by Jamie Crooks; and for Lea Brilmayer by Tassity S. Johnson. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court stock Mandatory Reporting (), https://www.ams.usda .gov/sites/default/files/media/LMRReporttoCongress .pdf. Much of this product differentiation refects consumer demand, informed by individual taste, health, or moral considerations. Informed by similar concerns, States (and their predeces- sors) have long enacted laws aimed at protecting animal wel- fare. As far back as , the Massachusetts Bay Colony prohibited “Tirranny or Crueltie towards any bruite Crea- ture.” Body of Liberties § , in A Bibliographical Sketch of the Laws of the Massachusetts Colony – (). Today, Massachusetts prohibits the sale of pork products from breeding pigs (or their offspring) if the breeding pig has been confned “in a manner that prevents [it] from lying down, standing up, fully extending [its] limbs or turning around freely.” Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. , App. §§ –, – (Cum. Supp. ). Nor is that State alone. Florida's Con- stitution prohibits “any person [from] confn[ing] a pig during pregnancy . . . in such a way that she is prevented from turning around freely.” Art. X, § (a). Arizona, Maine, Michigan, Oregon, and Rhode Island, too, have laws regulat- ing animal confnement practices within their borders. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § –.(A) (); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. , §§ ()–() (); Mich. Comp. Laws § .() (West Cum. Supp. ); Ore. Rev. Stat. §§ .()–() (); R. I. Gen. Laws § –.– (Supp. ). This case involves a challenge to a California law known as Proposition . In November and with the support of about % of participating voters, California adopted a ballot initiative that revised the State's existing standards for the in-state sale of eggs and announced new standards for the in-state sale of pork and veal products. App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. As relevant here, Proposition forbids the in-state sale of whole pork meat that comes from breed- ing pigs (or their immediate offspring) that are “confned Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court in a cruel manner.” Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. § (b)() (West Cum. Supp. ). Subject to certain ex- ceptions, the law deems confnement “cruel” if it prevents a pig from “lying down, standing up, fully extending [its] limbs, or turning around freely.” § (e)(). Since Prop- osition 's adoption, the State has begun developing “pro- posed regulations” that would permit compliance “certifca- tion[s]” to be issued “by non-governmental third parties, many used for myriad programs (e. g., `organic') already.” Brief for Intervenor Respondents , n. . A spirited debate preceded the vote on Proposition . Proponents observed that, in some farming operations, preg- nant pigs remain “[e]ncased” for weeks in “ft-to-size” metal crates. M. Scully, A Brief for the Pigs: The Case of National Pork Producers Council v. Ross, National Review, July , , https://www.nationalreview.com///a- brief - for - the - pigs - the - case - of - national - pork - producers - council-v-ross/. These animals may receive their only op- portunity for exercise when they are moved to a separate barn to give birth and later returned for another weeks of pregnancy confnement—with the cycle repeating until the pigs are slaughtered. Ibid. Proponents hoped that Propo- sition would go a long way toward eliminating pork sourced in this manner “from the California marketplace.” A. Padilla, Cal. Secretary of State, California General Elec- tion—Official Voter Information Guide (Nov. , ) (Voter Guide), https://vig.cdn.sos.ca.gov//general/pdf/ complete-vig.pdf. Proponents also suggested that the law would have health benefts for consumers because “packing animals in tiny, flthy cages increases the risk of food poison- ing.” Ibid.; see App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. Opponents pressed their case in strong terms too. They argued that existing farming practices did a better job of protecting animal welfare (for example, by preventing pig- on-pig aggression) and ensuring consumer health (by avoid- ing contamination) than Proposition would. Id., at a– a; see also Voter Guide –. They also warned voters Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court that Proposition would require some farmers and proces- sors to incur new costs. Id., at . Ones that might be “passed through” to California consumers. Ibid. Shortly after Proposition 's adoption, two organiza- tions—the National Pork Producers Council and the Ameri- can Farm Bureau Federation (collectively, petitioners)—fled this lawsuit on behalf of their members who raise and proc- ess pigs. App. to Pet. for Cert. a–a. Petitioners al- leged that Proposition violates the U. S. Constitution by impermissibly burdening interstate commerce. Id., at a–a. In support of that legal claim, petitioners pleaded a num- ber of facts. They acknowledged that, in response to con- sumer demand and the laws of other States, % of their industry has already converted to some form of group hous- ing for pregnant pigs. Id., at a. But, petitioners cau- tioned, even some farmers who already raise group-housed pigs will have to modify their practices if they wish to com- ply with Proposition . Id., at a–a. Much of pork production today is vertically integrated, too, with farmers selling pigs to large processing frms that turn them into different “cuts of meat” and distribute the “different parts . . . all over to completely different end users.” Id., at a– a. Revising this system to segregate and trace Propo- sition -compliant pork, petitioners alleged, will require certain processing frms to make substantial new capital in- vestments. Id., at a–a. Ultimately, petitioners esti- mated that “compliance with Proposition will increase production costs” by “.% . . . at the farm level.” Id., at a. These compliance costs will fall on California and out- of-state producers alike. Ibid. But because California im- ports almost all the pork it consumes, petitioners empha- sized, “the majority” of Proposition 's compliance costs will be initially borne by out-of-state frms. Ibid. After considerable motions practice, the district court held that petitioners' complaint failed to state a claim as a matter of law and dismissed the case. F. Supp. d (SD Cal. NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ). With Judge Ikuta writing for a unanimous panel, the Ninth Circuit affrmed. F. th (). Following that ruling, petitioners sought certiorari and we agreed to consider the complaint's legal suffciency for ourselves. U. S. ––– (). II The Constitution vests Congress with the power to “regu- late Commerce . . . among the several States.” Art. I, § , cl. . Everyone agrees that Congress may seek to exercise this power to regulate the interstate trade of pork, much as it has done with various other products. Everyone agrees, too, that congressional enactments may preempt conficting state laws. See Art. VI, cl. . But everyone also agrees that we have nothing like that here. Despite the persistent efforts of certain pork producers, Congress has yet to adopt any statute that might displace Proposition or laws regu- lating pork production in other States. See, e. g., H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (); H. R. , th Cong., d Sess., § (a) (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a) (); H. R. , th Cong., st Sess., § (a) (). That has led petitioners to resort to litigation, pinning their hopes on what has come to be called the dormant Com- merce Clause. Reading between the Constitution's lines, petitioners observe, this Court has held that the Commerce Clause not only vests Congress with the power to regulate interstate trade; the Clause also “contain[s] a further, nega- tive command,” one effectively forbidding the enforcement of “certain state [economic regulations] even when Congress has failed to legislate on the subject.” Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. Jefferson Lines, Inc., U. S. , (). This view of the Commerce Clause developed gradually. In Gibbons v. Ogden, Chief Justice Marshall recognized that the States' constitutionally reserved powers enable them to regulate commerce in their own jurisdictions in ways sure to have “a remote and considerable infuence on commerce” in other States. Wheat. , (). By way of example, Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court he cited “[i]nspection laws, quarantine laws, [and] health laws of every description.” Ibid. At the same time, how- ever, Chief Justice Marshall saw “great force in th[e] argu- ment” that the Commerce Clause might impliedly bar certain types of state economic regulation. Id., at . Decades later, in Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia ex rel. Soc. for Relief of Distressed Pilots, this Court again recognized that the power vested in Congress to regulate interstate commerce leaves the States substantial leeway to adopt their own commercial codes. How. , – (). But once more, the Court hinted that the Constitu- tion may come with some restrictions on what “may be regu- lated by the States” even “in the absence of all congressional legislation.” Id., at . Eventually, the Court cashed out these warnings, holding that state laws offend the Commerce Clause when they seek to “build up . . . domestic commerce” through “burdens upon the industry and business of other States,” regardless of whether Congress has spoken. Guy v. Baltimore, U. S. , (). At the same time, though, the Court reiter- ated that, absent discrimination, “a State may exclude from its territory, or prohibit the sale therein of any articles which, in its judgment, fairly exercised, are prejudicial to” the interests of its citizens. Ibid. Today, this antidiscrimination principle lies at the “very core” of our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. Camps Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, U. S. , (). In its “modern” cases, this Court has said that the Commerce Clause prohibits the enforcement of state laws “driven by . . . `economic protectionism—that is, regulatory measures designed to beneft in-state economic interests by burdening out-of-state competitors.' ” Depart- ment of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , – () (quoting New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, U. S. , – ()); see also Tennessee Wine and Spirits Retailers Assn. v. Thomas, U. S. –––, ––– () (observ- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ing that this Court's cases operate principally to “safeguard against state protectionism”); Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. County of Kent, U. S. , , n. () (describing “a violation of the dormant Commerce Clause” as “discrimi- nation against interstate commerce”). Admittedly, some “Members of the Court have authored vigorous and thoughtful critiques of this interpretation” of the Commerce Clause. Tennessee Wine, U. S., at ––– (citing cases). They have not necessarily quarreled with the antidiscrimination principle. But they have suggested that it may be more appropriately housed elsewhere in the Constitution. Perhaps in the Import-Export Clause, which prohibits States from “lay[ing] any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports” without permission from Congress. Art. I, § , cl. ; see Camps Newfound/Owatonna, U. S., at – (Thomas, J., dissenting). Perhaps in the Privi- leges and Immunities Clause, which entitles “[t]he Citizens of each State” to “all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.” Art. IV, § ; see Tyler Pipe Indus- tries, Inc. v. Washington State Dept. of Revenue, U. S. , () (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Or perhaps the principle inheres in the very struc- ture of the Constitution, which “was framed upon the theory that the peoples of the several [S]tates must sink or swim together.” American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Michigan Pub. Serv. Comm'n, U. S. , () (internal quota- tion marks omitted). Whatever one thinks about these critiques, we have no need to engage with any of them to resolve this case. Even under our received dormant Commerce Clause case law, peti- tioners begin in a tough spot. They do not allege that Cali- fornia's law seeks to advantage in-state frms or disadvan- tage out-of-state rivals. In fact, petitioners disavow any discrimination-based claim, conceding that Proposition imposes the same burdens on in-state pork producers that it imposes on out-of-state ones. As petitioners put it, “the Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court dormant Commerce Clause . . . bar on protectionist state statutes that discriminate against interstate commerce . . . is not in issue here.” Brief for Petitioners , n. . III Having conceded that California's law does not implicate the antidiscrimination principle at the core of this Court's dormant Commerce Clause cases, petitioners are left to pur- sue two more ambitious theories. In the frst, petitioners invoke what they call “extraterritoriality doctrine.” Id., at . They contend that our dormant Commerce Clause cases suggest an additional and “almost per se” rule forbidding en- forcement of state laws that have the “practical effect of con- trolling commerce outside the State,” even when those laws do not purposely discriminate against out-of-state economic interests. Ibid. Petitioners further insist that Proposition offends this “almost per se” rule because the law will im- pose substantial new costs on out-of-state pork producers who wish to sell their products in California. A This argument falters out of the gate. Put aside what problems may attend the minor (factual) premise of this ar- gument. Focus just on the major (legal) premise. Petition- ers say the “almost per se” rule they propose follows ineluc- tably from three cases—Healy v. Beer Institute, U. S. (); Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. v. New York State Liquor Authority, U. S. (); and Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., U. S. (). A close look at those cases, however, reveals nothing like the rule petition- ers posit. Instead, each typifes the familiar concern with preventing purposeful discrimination against out-of-state economic interests. Start with Baldwin. There, this Court refused to enforce New York laws that barred out-of-state dairy farmers from selling their milk in the State “unless the price paid to” them Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court matched the minimum price New York law guaranteed in- state producers. Id., at . In that way, the challenged laws deliberately robbed out-of-state dairy farmers of the opportunity to charge lower prices in New York thanks to whatever “natural competitive advantage” they might have enjoyed over in-state dairy farmers—for example, lower cost structures, more productive farming practices, or “lusher pasturage.” D. Regan, The Supreme Court and State Pro- tectionism: Making Sense of the Dormant Commerce Clause, Mich. L. Rev. , (). The problem with New York's laws was thus a simple one: They “plainly discrimi- nate[d]” against out-of-staters by “erecting an economic bar- rier protecting a major local industry against competition from without the State.” Dean Milk Co. v. Madison, U. S. , () (discussing Baldwin). Really, the laws operated like “a tariff or customs duty.” West Lynn Cream- ery, Inc. v. Healy, U. S. , (); see Baldwin, U. S., at (condemning the challenged laws for seeking to “protec[t]” New York dairy farmers “against competition from without”). Brown-Forman and Healy differed from Baldwin only in that they involved price-affrmation, rather than price-fxing, statutes. In Brown-Forman, New York required liquor dis- tillers to affrm (on a monthly basis) that their in-state prices were no higher than their out-of-state prices. U. S., at . Once more, the goal was plain: New York sought to force out-of-state distillers to “surrender” whatever cost ad- vantages they enjoyed against their in-state rivals. Id., at . Once more, the law amounted to “simple economic pro- tectionism.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). In Healy, a Connecticut law required out-of-state beer merchants to affrm that their in-state prices were no higher than those they charged in neighboring States. U. S., at –. Here, too, protectionism took center stage. As the Court later noted, “[t]he essential vice in laws” like Con- necticut's is that they “hoard” commerce “for the beneft of” Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court in-state merchants and discourage consumers from crossing state lines to make their purchases from nearby out-of-state vendors. C & A Carbone, Inc. v. Clarkstown, U. S. , – (). Nor did the law in Healy even try to cloak its discriminatory purpose: “By its plain terms, the Connecti- cut affrmation statute applie[d] solely to interstate” frms, and in that way “clearly discriminate[d] against interstate commerce.” U. S., at –. The Court also worried that, if the Connecticut law stood, “each of the border States” could “enac[t] statutes essentially identical to Connecticut's” in retaliation—a result often associated with avowedly pro- tectionist economic policies. Id., at –. B Petitioners insist that our reading of these cases misses the forest for the trees. On their account, Baldwin, Brown- Forman, and Healy didn't just fnd an impermissible dis- criminatory purpose in the challenged laws; they also sug- gested an “almost per se” rule against state laws with “extraterritorial effects.” Brief for Petitioners , . In Healy, petitioners stress, the Court included language criti- cizing New York's laws for having the “ `practical effect' ” of “control[ling] commerce `occurring wholly outside the bound- aries of [the] State.' ” Brief for Petitioners , (quoting U. S., at ). In Brown-Forman, petitioners observe, the Court suggested that whether a state law “ `is addressed only to [in-state] sales' ” “ `is irrelevant if the “practical ef- fect” of the law is to control' ” out-of-state prices. Brief for Petitioners (quoting U. S., at ). Petitioners point to similar language in Baldwin as well. Brief for Petition- ers (quoting U. S., at –). In our view, however, petitioners read too much into too little. “[T]he language of an opinion is not always to be parsed as though we were dealing with language of a stat- ute.” Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., U. S. , (). Instead, we emphasize, our opinions dispose of discrete cases Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court and controversies and they must be read with a careful eye to context. See Cohens v. Virginia, Wheat. , – () (Marshall, C. J.). And when it comes to Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy, the language petitioners high- light appeared in a particular context and did particular work. Throughout, the Court explained that the challenged statutes had a specifc impermissible “extraterritorial ef- fect”—they deliberately “prevent[ed out-of-state frms] from undertaking competitive pricing” or “deprive[d] businesses and consumers in other States of `whatever competitive ad- vantages they may possess.' ” Healy, U. S., at – (quoting Brown-Forman, U. S., at ). In recognizing this much, we say nothing new. This Court has already described “[t]he rule that was applied in Baldwin and Healy” as addressing “price control or price affrmation statutes” that tied “the price of . . . in-state prod- ucts to out-of-state prices.” Pharmaceutical Research and Mfrs. of America v. Walsh, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). Many lower courts have read these decisions in exactly the same way. See, e. g., F. th, at –; Association for Accessible Medicines v. Frosh, F. d , (CA ); Energy and Environment Legal Inst. v. Epel, F. d , (CA ); Ameri- can Beverage Assn. v. Snyder, F. d , (CA ). Consider, too, the strange places petitioners' alternative interpretation could lead. In our interconnected national marketplace, many (maybe most) state laws have the “practi- cal effect of controlling” extraterritorial behavior. State income tax laws lead some individuals and companies to relocate to other jurisdictions. See, e. g., Banner v. United States, F. d , (CADC ) (per curiam). Envi- ronmental laws often prove decisive when businesses choose where to manufacture their goods. See American Beverage Assn., F. d, at (Sutton, J., concurring). Add to the extraterritorial-effects list all manner of “libel laws, secu- rities requirements, charitable registration requirements, franchise laws, tort laws,” and plenty else besides. J. Gold- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court smith & A. Sykes, The Internet and the Dormant Commerce Clause, Yale L. J. , (). Nor, as we have seen, is this a recent development. Since the founding, States have enacted an “immense mass” of “[i]nspection laws, quar- antine laws, [and] health laws of every description” that have a “considerable” infuence on commerce outside their bor- ders. Gibbons, Wheat., at ; see also Cooley, How., at –. Petitioners' “almost per se” rule against laws that have the “practical effect” of “controlling” extraterrito- rial commerce would cast a shadow over laws long under- stood to represent valid exercises of the States' constitution- ally reserved powers. It would provide neither courts nor litigants with meaningful guidance in how to resolve dis- putes over them. Instead, it would invite endless litigation and inconsistent results. Can anyone really suppose Bald- win, Brown-Forman, and Healy meant to do so much? In rejecting petitioners' “almost per se” theory we do not mean to trivialize the role territory and sovereign bound- aries play in our federal system. Certainly, the Constitution takes great care to provide rules for fxing and changing state borders. Art. IV, § , cl. . Doubtless, too, courts must sometimes referee disputes about where one State's au- thority ends and another's begins—both inside and outside the commercial context. In carrying out that task, this Court has recognized the usual “legislative power of a State to act upon persons and property within the limits of its own territory,” Hoyt v. Sprague, U. S. , (), a fea- ture of our constitutional order that allows “different com- munities” to live “with different local standards,” Sable Com- munications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, U. S. , (). But, by way of example, no one should think that one State may adopt a law exempting securities held by the residents of a second State from taxation in that second State. Bona- parte v. Tax Court, U. S. , – (). Nor, we have held, should anyone think one State may prosecute the citizen of another State for acts committed “outside [the frst State's] jurisdiction” that are not “intended to produce [or Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court that do not] produc[e] detrimental effects within it.” Strass- heim v. Daily, U. S. , (). To resolve disputes about the reach of one State's power, this Court has long consulted original and historical under- standings of the Constitution's structure and the principles of “sovereignty and comity” it embraces. BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore, U. S. , (). This Court has invoked as well a number of the Constitution's express provisions—including “the Due Process Clause and the Full Faith and Credit Clause.” Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts, U. S. , (). The antidiscrimination principle found in our dormant Commerce Clause cases may well rep- resent one more effort to mediate competing claims of sover- eign authority under our horizontal separation of powers. But none of this means, as petitioners suppose, that any question about the ability of a State to project its power extraterritorially must yield to an “almost per se” rule under the dormant Commerce Clause. This Court has never be- fore claimed so much “ground for judicial supremacy under the banner of the dormant Commerce Clause.” United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Man- agement Authority, U. S. , (). We see no reason to change course now. Beyond Baldwin, Brown-Forman, and Healy, petitioners point to Edgar v. MITE Corp., U. S. (), as authority for the “almost per se” rule they propose. Invoking the dormant Commerce Clause, a plurality in that case declined to enforce an Illinois securities law that “directly regulate[d] transactions which [took] place . . . wholly outside the State” and involved individuals “having no connection with Illinois.” Id., at – (emphasis added). Some have questioned whether the state law at issue in Edgar posed a dormant Commerce Clause question as much as one testing the territorial limits of state authority under the Constitu- tion's horizontal separation of powers. See, e. g., D. Regan, Siamese Es- says: (I) CTS Corp. v. Dynamics Corp. of America and Dormant Com- merce Clause Doctrine; (II) Extraterritorial State Legislation, Mich. L. Rev. , –, – (); cf. Shelby County v. Holder, U. S. , () (“[A]ll States enjoy equal sovereignty”). But either way, the Edgar plurality opinion does not support the rule petitioners Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court IV Failing in their frst theory, petitioners retreat to a second they associate with Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. (). Under Pike, they say, a court must at least assess “ `the burden imposed on interstate commerce' ” by a state law and prevent its enforcement if the law's burdens are “ `clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefts.' ” Brief for Petitioners . Petitioners then rattle off a litany of reasons why they believe the benefts Proposition se- cures for Californians do not outweigh the costs it imposes on out-of-state economic interests. We see problems with this theory too. A In the frst place, petitioners overstate the extent to which Pike and its progeny depart from the antidiscrimination rule that lies at the core of our dormant Commerce Clause juris- prudence. As this Court has previously explained, “no clear line” separates the Pike line of cases from our core antidis- crimination precedents. General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , , n. (). While many of our dormant Commerce Clause cases have asked whether a law exhibits “ `facial discrimination,' ” “several cases that have purported to apply [Pike,] including Pike itself,” have “turned in whole or in part on the discriminatory character of the challenged state regulations.” Ibid. In other words, if some of our cases focus on whether a state law discriminates on its face, the Pike line serves as an important reminder that a law's practical effects may also disclose the presence of a discrimi- natory purpose. Pike itself illustrates the point. That case concerned an Arizona order requiring cantaloupes grown in state to be propose. That decision spoke to a law that directly regulated out-of-state transactions by those with no connection to the State. Petitioners do not allege those conditions exist here. To the contrary, they acknowledge that Proposition regulates only products that companies choose to sell “within” California. Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. § (b). Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court processed and packed in state. U. S., at –. The Court held that Arizona's order violated the dormant Com- merce Clause. Id., at . Even if that order could be fairly characterized as facially neutral, the Court stressed that it “requir[ed] business operations to be performed in [state] that could more effciently be performed elsewhere.” Id., at . The “practical effect[s]” of the order in opera- tion thus revealed a discriminatory purpose—an effort to in- sulate in-state processing and packaging businesses from out-of-state competition. Id., at , . Other cases in the Pike line underscore the same message. In Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co., the Court found no impermissible burden on interstate commerce because, looking to the law's effects, “there [was] no reason to suspect that the gainers” would be in-state frms or that “the losers [would be] out-of-state frms.” U. S. , (); see also id., at –, and n. (Powell, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (asking whether the “actual purpose,” if not the “ `avowed purpose,' ” of the law was discrimina- tion). Similarly, in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, the Court keyed to the fact that the effect of the challenged law was only to shift business from one set of out-of-state suppliers to another. U. S. , (). And in United Haulers, a plurality upheld the challenged law be- cause it could not “detect” any discrimination in favor of in- state businesses or against out-of-state competitors. U. S., at . In each of these cases and many more, the presence or absence of discrimination in practice proved decisive. Once again, we say nothing new here. Some time ago, Tracy identifed the congruity between our core dormant Commerce Clause precedents and the Pike line. U. S., at , n. . Many lower courts have done the same. See, e. g., Rosenblatt v. Santa Monica, F. d , (CA ); Park Pet Shop, Inc. v. Chicago, F. d , (CA ); Amanda Acquisition Corp. v. Universal Foods Corp., Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court F. d , (CA ). So have many scholars. See, e. g., R. Fallon, The Dynamic Constitution (d ed. ) (observing that Pike serves to “ `smoke out' a hidden” pro- tectionism); B. Friedman & D. Deacon, A Course Unbroken: The Constitutional Legitimacy of the Dormant Commerce Clause, Va. L. Rev. , (); Regan, Mich. L. Rev., at . Nor does any of this help petitioners in this case. They not only disavow any claim that Proposition discriminates on its face. They nowhere suggest that an examination of Proposition 's practical effects in operation would disclose purposeful discrimination against out-of-state businesses. While this Court has left the “courtroom door open” to chal- lenges premised on “even nondiscriminatory burdens,” Davis, U. S., at , and while “a small number of our cases have invalidated state laws . . . that appear to have been genuinely nondiscriminatory,” Tracy, U. S., at , n. , Most notably, Tracy referred to, and petitioners briefy allude to, a line of cases that originated before Pike in which this Court refused to enforce certain state regulations on instrumentalities of interstate transporta- tion—trucks, trains, and the like. See, e. g., Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines, Inc., U. S. , – () (concerning a state law specifying cer- tain mud faps for trucks and trailers); Southern Pacifc Co. v. Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, U. S. , – () (addressing a state law regard- ing the length of trains). Petitioners claim these cases support something like the extraterritoriality or balancing rules they propose. But at least some decisions in this line might be viewed as condemning state laws that “although neutral on their face . . . were enacted at the instance of, and primarily beneft,” in-state interests. Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice, U. S. , (); see also B. Friedman & D. Deacon, A Course Unbroken: The Constitutional Legitimacy of the Dormant Commerce Clause, Va. L. Rev. , (). In any event, this Court “has only rarely held that the Commerce Clause itself pre-empts an entire feld from state regulation, and then only when a lack of national uniformity would impede the fow of interstate goods.” Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. , () (emphasis added). Nothing like that exists here. We do not face a law that impedes the fow of commerce. Pigs are not trucks or trains. Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Gorsuch, J. petitioners' claim falls well outside Pike's heartland. That is not an auspicious start. B Matters do not improve from there. While Pike has tra- ditionally served as another way to test for purposeful dis- crimination against out-of-state economic interests, and while some of our cases associated with that line have ex- pressed special concern with certain state regulation of the instrumentalities of interstate transportation, see n. , supra, petitioners would have us retool Pike for a much more ambitious project. They urge us to read Pike as authorizing judges to strike down duly enacted state laws regulating the in-state sale of ordinary consumer goods (like pork) based on nothing more than their own assessment of the relevant law's “costs” and “benefts.” That we can hardly do. Whatever other judicial authori- ties the Commerce Clause may imply, that kind of freewheel- ing power is not among them. Petitioners point to nothing in the Constitution's text or history that supports such a project. And our cases have expressly cautioned against judges using the dormant Commerce Clause as “a roving license for federal courts to decide what activities are ap- propriate for state and local government to undertake.” United Haulers, U. S., at . While “[t]here was a time when this Court presumed to make such binding judgments for society, under the guise of interpreting the Due Process Clause,” we have long refused pleas like petitioners' “to re- claim that ground” in the name of the dormant Commerce Clause. Id., at . Not only is the task petitioners propose one the Commerce Clause does not authorize judges to undertake. This Court has also recognized that judges often are “not institutionally suited to draw reliable conclusions of the kind that would be necessary . . . to satisfy [the] Pike” test as petitioners con- ceive it. Davis, U. S., at . Our case illustrates the problem. On the “cost” side of the ledger, petitioners allege they will face increased production Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Gorsuch, J. expenses because of Proposition . On the “benefts” side, petitioners acknowledge that Californians voted for Proposi- tion to vindicate a variety of interests, many noneconomic. See App. to Pet. for Cert. a (alleging in their complaint that “Proposition 's requirements were driven by [a] con- ception of what qualifes as `cruel' animal housing” and by the State's concern for the “ `health and safety of California consumers' ”). How is a court supposed to compare or weigh economic costs (to some) against noneconomic benefts (to others)? No neutral legal rule guides the way. The com- peting goods before us are insusceptible to resolution by ref- erence to any juridical principle. Really, the task is like being asked to decide “whether a particular line is longer than a particular rock is heavy.” Bendix Autolite Corp. v. Midwesco Enterprises, Inc., U. S. , () (Sca- lia, J., concurring in judgment). Faced with this problem, petitioners reply that we should heavily discount the benefts of Proposition . They say that California has little interest in protecting the welfare of animals raised elsewhere and the law's health benefts are overblown. But along the way, petitioners offer notable concessions too. They acknowledge that States may some- times ban the in-state sale of products they deem unethical or immoral without regard to where those products are made (for example, goods manufactured with child labor). See Tr. of Oral Arg. (“[A] state is perfectly entitled to enforce its morals in state”); see also Western Union Telegraph Co. v. James, U. S. , () (holding that States may enact laws to “promote . . . public morals”). And, at least arguably, Proposition works in just this way—banning from the State all whole pork products derived from prac- tices its voters consider “cruel.” Petitioners also concede that States may often adopt laws addressing even “imper- fectly understood” health risks associated with goods sold within their borders. Reply Brief . And, again, no one disputes that some who voted for Proposition may have done so with just that sort of goal in mind. See, e. g., USDA Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Gorsuch, J. Proposed Rule To Amend Organic Livestock and Poultry Production Requirements, Fed. Reg. () (afford- ing animals more space “may result in healthier livestock products for human consumption”). So even accepting everything petitioners say, we remain left with a task no court is equipped to undertake. On the one hand, some out-of-state producers who choose to comply with Proposition may incur new costs. On the other hand, the law serves moral and health interests of some (dis- putable) magnitude for in-state residents. Some might rea- sonably fnd one set of concerns more compelling. Others might fairly disagree. How should we settle that dispute? The competing goods are incommensurable. Your guess is as good as ours. More accurately, your guess is better than ours. In a func- tioning democracy, policy choices like these usually belong to the people and their elected representatives. They are entitled to weigh the relevant “political and economic” costs and benefts for themselves, Moorman Mfg. Co. v. Bair, U. S. , (), and “try novel social and economic ex- periments” if they wish, New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, U. S. , () (Brandeis, J., dissenting). Judges can- not displace the cost-beneft analyses embodied in democrati- cally adopted legislation guided by nothing more than their own faith in “Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics,” Lochner v. New York, U. S. , () (Holmes, J., dissenting)— or, for that matter, Mr. Wilson Pond's Pork Production Sys- tems, see W. Pond, J. Maner, & D. Harris, Pork Production Systems: Effcient Use of Swine and Feed Resources (). If, as petitioners insist, California's law really does threaten a “massive” disruption of the pork industry, see Brief for Petitioners , , —if pig husbandry really does “ `imperatively demand' ” a single uniform nationwide rule, id., at —they are free to petition Congress to intervene. Under the (wakeful) Commerce Clause, that body enjoys the power to adopt federal legislation that may preempt con- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Gorsuch, J. ficting state laws. That body is better equipped than this Court to identify and assess all the pertinent economic and political interests at play across the country. And that body is certainly better positioned to claim democratic support for any policy choice it may make. But so far, Congress has declined the producers' sustained entreaties for new legisla- tion. See Part I, supra (citing failed efforts). And with that history in mind, it is hard not to wonder whether peti- tioners have ventured here only because winning a majority of a handful of judges may seem easier than marshaling a majority of elected representatives across the street. C Even as petitioners conceive Pike, they face a problem. As they read it, Pike requires a plaintiff to plead facts plausi- bly showing that a challenged law imposes “substantial bur- dens” on interstate commerce before a court may assess the law's competing benefts or weigh the two sides against each other. Brief for Petitioners . And, tellingly, the com- plaint before us fails to clear even that bar. To appreciate petitioners' problem, compare our case to Exxon. That case involved a Maryland law prohibiting pe- troleum producers from operating retail gas stations in the State. U. S., at –, and n. . Because Maryland had no in-state petroleum producers, Exxon argued, the law's “divestiture requirements” fell “solely on interstate companies” and threatened to force some to “withdraw en- tirely from the Maryland market” or incur new costs to serve that market. Id., at –. All this, the company said, amounted to a violation of the dormant Commerce Clause. This Court found the allegations in Exxon's complaint in- suffcient as a matter of law to demonstrate a substantial burden on interstate commerce. Without question, Mary- land's law favored one business structure (independent gas station retailers) over another (vertically integrated produc- tion and retail frms). Ibid. The law also promised to in- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Gorsuch, J. crease retail gas prices for Maryland consumers, allowing some to question its “wisdom.” Id., at , . But, the Court found, Exxon failed to plead facts leading, “either logi- cally or as a practical matter, to [the] conclusion that the State [was] discriminating against interstate commerce.” Id., at . The company failed to do so because, on its face, Maryland's law welcomed competition from interstate retail gas station chains that did not produce petroleum. Id., at –. And as far as anyone could tell, the law's “practi- cal effect” wasn't to protect in-state producers; it was to shift market share from one set of out-of-state frms (vertically integrated businesses) to another (retail gas station frms). Id., at , . This Court squarely rejected the view that this predicted “ `change [in] the market structure' ” would “impermissibly burde[n] interstate commerce.” Id., at . If the dormant Commerce Clause protects the “interstate market . . . from prohibitive or burdensome regulations,” the Court held, it does not protect “particular . . . frms” or “par- ticular structure[s] or methods of operation.” Id., at – . If Maryland's law did not impose a suffcient burden on interstate commerce to warrant further scrutiny, the same must be said for Proposition . In Exxon, vertically inte- grated businesses faced a choice: They could divest their pro- duction capacities or withdraw from the local retail market. Here, farmers and vertically integrated processors have at least as much choice: They may provide all their pigs the space the law requires; they may segregate their operations to ensure pork products entering California meet its stand- ards; or they may withdraw from that State's market. In Exxon, the law posed a choice only for out-of-state frms. Here, the law presents a choice primarily—but not exclu- sively—for out-of-state businesses; California does have some pork producers affected by Proposition . See App. to Pet. for Cert. a. In Exxon, as far as anyone could tell, the law threatened only to shift market share from one set Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Gorsuch, J. of out-of-state frms to another. Here, the pleadings allow for the same possibility—that California market share pre- viously enjoyed by one group of proft-seeking, out-of-state businesses (farmers who stringently confne pigs and proces- sors who decline to segregate their products) will be re- placed by another (those who raise and trace Proposition - compliant pork). In both cases, some may question the “wisdom” of a law that threatens to disrupt the existing practices of some industry participants and may lead to higher consumer prices. U. S., at . But the dor- mant Commerce Clause does not protect a “particular struc- ture or metho[d] of operation.” Id., at . That goes for pigs no less than gas stations. Think of it another way. Petitioners must plead facts “plausibly” suggesting a substantial harm to interstate com- merce; facts that render that outcome a “speculative” possi- bility are not enough. Bell Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, U. S. , , (). In an effort to meet this standard, petitioners allege facts suggesting that certain out-of-state farmers and processing frms will fnd it diffcult to comply with Proposition and may choose not to do so. See App. to Pet. for Cert. a, a, a. But the complaint also acknowledges that many producers have already converted to some form of group housing, even if they have not all yet met Proposition 's standards. Id., at a. From these facts, the complaint plausibly alleges that some out-of-state frms may face diffculty complying (or may choose not to comply) with Proposition . But from all anyone can tell, other out-of-state competitors seeking to enhance their own profts may choose to modify their existing operations or cre- ate new ones to fll the void. Though it is unnecessary to adorn the point, we note that a number of smaller out-of-state pork producers have fled an amicus brief in this Court hailing the “opportunities” Proposition affords them to compete with vertically integrated frms with “ `concentrated market power' ” that are wedded to their existing processing practices. Brief for Small and Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Gorsuch, J. Of course, as the complaint alleges, a shift from one set of production methods to another promises some costs. Id., at a. But the complaint concedes that complying produc- ers will be able to “pas[s] along” at least “some” of their increased costs to consumers. Id., at a. And no one thinks that costs ultimately borne by in-state consumers thanks to a law they adopted counts as a cognizable harm under our dormant Commerce Clause precedents. See United Haulers, U. S., at (holding that the dormant Commerce Clause is not offended by higher prices “likely to fall upon the very people who voted for the [challenged] la[w]”). Nor does the complaint allege facts plausibly sug- gesting that out-of-state consumers indifferent to pork pro- duction methods will have to pick up the tab (let alone ex- plain how petitioners might sue to vindicate their interests). Instead, at least one declaration incorporated by reference into the complaint avers that some out-of-state consumers will “not value these changes and will not pay an increased price.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a; see also Brief for Ag- ricultural and Resource Economics Professors as Amici Cu- riae , (suggesting negligible effect on out-of-state prices for consumers not interested in Proposition -compliant pork). Further experience may yield further facts. But the facts pleaded in this complaint merely allege harm to Independent Farming Businesses et al. as Amici Curiae , , –. Other amici have noted that even some large vertically integrated proc- essing frms have already begun to modify (or else have indicated their intention to modify) their operations to comply with Proposition . See Brief for Perdue Premium Meat Co., Inc., as Amicus Curiae –; see also Brief for Economic Research Organizations as Amici Curiae – (recit- ing public statements from Hormel, Smithfeld, and Tyson). Another large processing frm, Cargill, has boasted that, “ `[b]efore we sold our pork business in , we led the industry in removing gestation stalls to house pregnant sows.' ” Id., at . Petitioner National Pork Producers Council lists Cargill as an “allied industry compan[y].” National Pork Producers Council, Pork Alliance Program, https://nppc.org/get-involved/ join-the-pork-alliance/. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Gorsuch, J. some producers' favored “methods of operation.” Exxon, U. S., at . A substantial harm to interstate com- merce remains nothing more than a speculative possibility. Ibid. D The Chief Justice's concurrence in part and dissent in part (call it “the lead dissent”) offers a contrasting view. Correctly, it begins by rejecting petitioners' “almost per se” rule against laws with extraterritorial effects. Post, at . And correctly, it disapproves reading Pike to endorse a “freewheeling judicial weighing of benefts and burdens.” Post, at . But for all it gets right, in other respects it goes astray. In places, the lead dissent seems to advance a reading of Pike that would permit judges to enjoin the enforcement of any state law restricting the sale of an ordi- nary consumer good if the law threatens an “ `excessive' ” “har[m] to the interstate market” for that good. Post, at –. It is an approach that would go much further than our precedents permit. So much further, in fact, that it isn't clear what separates the lead dissent's approach from others it purports to reject. Consider an example. Today, many States prohibit the sale of horsemeat for human consumption. See Cavel Int'l, Inc. v. Madigan, F. d , – (CA ). But these prohibitions “har[m] the interstate market” for horse- meat by denying outlets for its sale. Not only that, they distort the market for animal products more generally by pressuring horsemeat manufacturers to transition to differ- ent products, ones they can lawfully sell nationwide. Under the lead dissent's test, all it would take is one complaint from an unhappy out-of-state producer and—presto—the Consti- tution would protect the sale of horsemeat. Just fnd a judge anywhere in the country who considers the burden to producers “ `excessive.' ” Post, at . The same would go for all manner of consumer products currently banned by some States but not by others—goods ranging from fre- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Gorsuch, J. works, see, e. g., Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. , § (), to single-use plastic grocery bags, see, e. g., Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. , §§ ()(A), () (). Rather than respect- ing federalism, a rule like that would require any consumer good available for sale in one State to be made available in every State. In the process, it would essentially replicate under Pike's banner petitioners' “almost per se” rule against state laws with extraterritorial effects. Seeking a way around that problem, the lead dissent stum- bles into another. It suggests that the burdens of Proposi- tion are particularly “substantial” because California's law “carr[ies] implications for producers as far fung as Indiana and North Carolina.” Post, at –. Why is that so? Justice Kavanaugh's solo concurrence in part and dissent in part says the quiet part aloud: California's market is so lucrative that almost any in-state measure will infuence how out-of-state proft-maximizing frms choose to operate. Post, at –. But if that makes all the difference, it means voters in States with smaller markets are constitu- tionally entitled to greater authority to regulate in-state sales than voters in States with larger markets. So much for the Constitution's “fundamental principle of equal sover- eignty among the States.” Shelby County v. Holder, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). The most striking feature of both dissents, however, may be another one. They suggest that, in assessing a state law's burdens under Pike, courts should take into account not just economic harms but also all manner of “derivative harms” to out-of-state interests. Post, at – (opinion of Roberts, C. J.). These include social costs that are “dif- fcult to quantify” such as (in this case) costs to the “national pig population,” “animal husbandry” traditions, and (again) “industry practice.” Post, at –; see also post, at – (opinion of Kavanaugh, J.). But not even petitioners read Pike so boldly. While petitioners argue that Proposition does not beneft pigs (as California has asserted), they have Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court not asked this Court (or any court) to treat putative harms to out-of-state animal welfare or other noneconomic interests as freestanding harms cognizable under the dormant Com- merce Clause. Nor could they have proceeded otherwise. Our decisions have authorized claims alleging “burdens on commerce.” Davis, U. S., at . They do not provide judges “a roving license” to reassess the wisdom of state legislation in light of any conceivable out-of-state interest, economic or otherwise. United Haulers, U. S., at . V Before the Constitution's passage, Rhode Island imposed special taxes on imported “New-England Rum”; Connecticut levied duties on goods “brought into th[e] State, by Land or Water, from any of the United States of America”; and Vir- ginia taxed “vessels coming within th[e S]tate from any of the United States.” An Act Laying Certain Duties of Ex- cise Upon Certain Articles, Feb. , R. I. Acts and Re- solves ; An Act for Levying and Collecting a Duty on Cer- tain Articles of Goods, Wares and Merchandize Imported into this State, by Land or Water, Conn. Acts and Laws Both dissents seek to characterize today's decision as “fractured” in an effort to advance their own overbroad readings of Pike and layer their own gloss on opinions they do not join. Post, at , (opinion of Kava- naugh, J.); see also post at –, – (opinion of Roberts, C. J.). But the dissents are just that—dissents. Their glosses do not speak for the Court. Today, the Court unanimously disavows petitioners' “almost per se” rule against laws with extraterritorial effects. See Parts II and III, supra. When it comes to Pike, a majority agrees that heartland Pike cases seek to smoke out purposeful discrimination in state laws (as illumi- nated by those laws' practical effects) or seek to protect the instrumentali- ties of interstate transportation. See Part IV–A, supra. A majority also rejects any effort to expand Pike's domain to cover cases like this one, some of us for reasons found in Part IV–B, others of us for reasons dis- cussed in Part IV–C. Today's decision depends equally on the analysis found in both of these sections; without either, there is no explaining the Court's judgment affrming the decision below. A majority also sub- scribes to what follows in Part V. NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of the Court ; An Act to Amend the Act for Ascertaining Certain Taxes and Duties, and for Establishing a Permanent Reve- nue (May , ), in Statues at Large, Laws of Virginia (W. Hening ed. ). Whether moved by this experience or merely worried that more States might join the bandwagon, the Framers equipped Congress with considerable power to regulate in- terstate commerce and preempt contrary state laws. See U. S. Const., Art. I, § , cl. ; Art. IV, § ; see also Regan, Mich. L. Rev., at , n. ; A. Abel, The Commerce Clause in the Constitutional Convention and in Contemporary Com- ment, Minn. L. Rev. , – (). In the years since, this Court has inferred an additional judicially enforce- able rule against certain, especially discriminatory, state laws adopted even against the backdrop of congressional si- lence. But “ `extreme caution' ” is warranted before a court deploys this implied authority. Tracy, U. S., at (quoting Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. Minnesota, U. S. , () (Black, J., concurring)). Preventing state offcials from enforcing a democratically adopted state law in the name of the dormant Commerce Clause is a matter of “ex- treme delicacy,” something courts should do only “where the infraction is clear.” Conway v. Taylor's Executor, Black , (). Petitioners would have us cast aside caution for boldness. They have failed—repeatedly—to persuade Congress to use its express Commerce Clause authority to adopt a uniform rule for pork production. And they disavow any reliance on this Court's core dormant Commerce Clause teachings fo- cused on discriminatory state legislation. Instead, petition- ers invite us to endorse two new theories of implied judicial power. They would have us recognize an “almost per se” rule against the enforcement of state laws that have “extra- territorial effects”—even though this Court has recognized since Gibbons that virtually all state laws create ripple ef- fects beyond their borders. Alternatively, they would have Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Sotomayor, J., concurring in part us prevent a State from regulating the sale of an ordinary consumer good within its own borders on nondiscriminatory terms—even though the Pike line of cases they invoke has never before yielded such a result. Like the courts that faced this case before us, we decline both of petitioners' in- cautious invitations. The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is Affrmed. Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan joins, concurring in part. I join all but Parts IV–B and IV–D of Justice Gorsuch's opinion. Given the fractured nature of Part IV, I write sep- arately to clarify my understanding of why petitioners' Pike claim fails. In short, I vote to affrm the judgment because petitioners fail to allege a substantial burden on interstate commerce as required by Pike, not because of any fundamen- tal reworking of that doctrine. * * * In Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. (), the Court distilled a general principle from its prior cases. “Where [a] statute regulates even-handedly to effectuate a legitimate local public interest, and its effects on interstate commerce are only incidental, it will be upheld unless the burden imposed on such commerce is clearly excessive in re- lation to the putative local benefts.” Id., at . Further, “the extent of the burden that will be tolerated will of course depend on the nature of the local interest involved, and on whether it could be promoted as well with a lesser impact on interstate activities.” Ibid. As the Court's opinion here explains, Pike's balancing and tailoring principles are most frequently deployed to detect the presence or absence of latent economic protectionism. See ante, at –. That is no surprise. Warding off state discrimination against interstate commerce is at the Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Sotomayor, J., concurring in part heart of our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. See ante, at , –, –. As the Court's opinion also acknowledges, however, the Court has “generally le[ft] the courtroom door open” to claims premised on “even nondiscriminatory burdens.” De- partment of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , (); see ante, at . Indeed, “a small number” of this Court's cases in the Pike line “have invalidated state laws . . . that appear to have been genuinely nondiscriminatory” in nature. General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , , n. (); see ante, at . Often, such cases have ad- dressed state laws that impose burdens on the arteries of commerce, on “trucks, trains, and the like.” Ibid., n. . Yet, there is at least one exception to that tradition. See Edgar v. MITE Corp., U. S. , – () (invali- dating a nondiscriminatory state law that regulated tender offers to shareholders). Pike claims that do not allege discrimination or a burden on an artery of commerce are further from Pike's core. As The Chief Justice recognizes, however, the Court today does not shut the door on all such Pike claims. See ante, at –, and n. ; post, at –. Thus, petitioners' fail- ure to allege discrimination or an impact on the instrumen- talities of commerce does not doom their Pike claim. Nor does a majority of the Court endorse the view that judges are not up to the task that Pike prescribes. Justice Gorsuch, for a plurality, concludes that petitioners' Pike claim fails because courts are incapable of balancing eco- nomic burdens against noneconomic benefts. See ante, at –. I do not join that portion of Justice Gorsuch's opinion. I acknowledge that the inquiry is diffcult and deli- cate, and federal courts are well advised to approach the matter with caution. See ante, at . Yet, I agree with The Chief Justice that courts generally are able to weigh disparate burdens and benefts against each other, and that they are called on to do so in other areas of the law with Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Barrett, J., concurring in part some frequency. See post, at –. The means-ends tailoring analysis that Pike incorporates is likewise familiar to courts and does not raise the asserted incommensurability problems that trouble Justice Gorsuch. In my view, and as Justice Gorsuch concludes for a sepa- rate plurality of the Court, petitioners' Pike claim fails for a much narrower reason. Reading petitioners' allegations in light of the Court's decision in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. (), the complaint fails to allege a substantial burden on interstate commerce. See ante, at –. Alleging a substantial burden on interstate com- merce is a threshold requirement that plaintiffs must satisfy before courts need even engage in Pike's balancing and tai- loring analyses. Because petitioners have not done so, they fail to state a Pike claim. Justice Barrett, concurring in part. A state law that burdens interstate commerce in clear ex- cess of its putative local benefts funks Pike balancing. Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. , (). In most cases, Pike's “general rule” refects a commonsense principle: Where there's smoke, there's fre. Ibid. Under our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence, one State may not discriminate against another's producers or consumers. A law whose burdens fall incommensurately and inexplicably on out-of-state interests may be doing just that. But to weigh benefts and burdens, it is axiomatic that both must be judicially cognizable and comparable. See Depart- ment of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , – (). I agree with Justice Gorsuch that the benefts and burdens of Proposition are incommensurable. Cali- fornia's interest in eliminating allegedly inhumane products from its markets cannot be weighed on a scale opposite dol- lars and cents—at least not without second-guessing the moral judgments of California voters or making the kind of policy decisions reserved for politicians. Ante, at –; Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. Davis, U. S., at (Scalia, J., concurring in part). None of our Pike precedents requires us to attempt such a feat. That said, I disagree with my colleagues who would hold that petitioners have failed to allege a substantial burden on interstate commerce. Ante, at –; ante, at (So- tomayor, J., concurring in part). The complaint plausibly alleges that Proposition 's costs are pervasive, burden- some, and will be felt primarily (but not exclusively) outside California. See post, at – (Roberts, C. J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For this reason, I do not join Part IV–C of Justice Gorsuch's opinion. If the bur- dens and benefts were capable of judicial balancing, I would permit petitioners to proceed with their Pike claim. Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Alito, Justice Kavanaugh, and Justice Jackson join, concurring in part and dissenting in part. I agree with the Court's view in its thoughtful opinion that many of the leading cases invoking the dormant Commerce Clause are properly read as invalidating statutes that pro- moted economic protectionism. See ante, at –. I also agree with the Court's conclusion that our precedent does not support a per se rule against state laws with “extra- territorial” effects. See ante, at –. But I cannot agree with the approach adopted by some of my colleagues to analyzing petitioners' claim based on Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. , (). See ante, at – (majority opinion); ante, at – (opinion of Gorsuch, J.); ante, at (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part); ante, at – (Barrett, J., concurring in part). Pike provides that nondiscriminatory state regulations are valid under the Commerce Clause “unless the burden im- posed on [interstate] commerce is clearly excessive in rela- tion to the putative local benefts.” U. S., at . A majority of the Court thinks that petitioners' complaint does not make for “an auspicious start” on that claim. Ante, at Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. . In my view, that is through no fault of their own. The Ninth Circuit misapplied our existing Pike jurisprudence in evaluating petitioners' allegations. I would fnd that peti- tioners have plausibly alleged a substantial burden against interstate commerce, and would therefore vacate the judg- ment and remand the case for the court below to decide whether petitioners have stated a claim under Pike. I The Ninth Circuit stated that “[w]hile the dormant Com- merce Clause is not yet a dead letter, it is moving in that direction.” F. th , (). Today's majority does not pull the plug. For good reason: Although Pike is susceptible to misapplication as a freewheeling judicial weighing of benefts and burdens, it also refects the basic concern of our Commerce Clause jurisprudence that there be “free private trade in the national marketplace.” General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, U. S. , () (quoting Reeves, Inc. v. Stake, U. S. , ()); see also Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm'n, U. S. , () (Pike protects “a national `common market' ”). “Our system, fostered by the Commerce Clause, is that every farmer and every craftsman shall be encouraged to produce by the certainty that he will have free access to every mar- ket in the Nation, that no home embargoes will withhold his exports, and no foreign state will by customs duties or regulations exclude them.” H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond, U. S. , (). The majority's discussion of our Pike jurisprudence high- lights two types of cases: those involving discriminatory state laws and those implicating the “instrumentalities of in- terstate transportation.” Ante, at , n. . But Pike has not been so narrowly typecast. As a majority of the Court acknowledges, “we generally leave the courtroom door open to plaintiffs invoking the rule in Pike, that even nondiscrimi- natory burdens on commerce may be struck down on a show- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. ing that those burdens clearly outweigh the benefts of a state or local practice.” Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, U. S. , (); see also United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, U. S. , () (plurality opinion) (Pike applies to “a nondiscriminatory statute like this one”). Nor have our cases applied Pike only where a State regulates the instrumentalities of transportation. Pike itself addressed an Arizona law regulating cantaloupe packaging. See U. S., at . And we have since applied Pike to invalidate nondis- criminatory state laws that do not concern transportation. Edgar v. MITE Corp., U. S. , – (). As a majority of the Court agrees, Pike extends beyond laws either concerning discrimination or governing interstate transportation. See ante, at (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); post, at (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part and dissent- ing in part). Speaking for three Members of the Court, Justice Gor- such objects that balancing competing interests under Pike is simply an impossible judicial task. See ante, at –. I certainly appreciate the concern, see United Haulers, U. S., at , , but sometimes there is no avoiding the need to weigh seemingly incommensurable values. See, e. g., Schneider v. State (Town of Irvington), U. S. , () (weighing “the purpose to keep the streets clean and of good appearance” against the “the constitutional pro- tection of the freedom of speech and press”); Winston v. Lee, U. S. , () (“The reasonableness” under the Fourth Amendment “of surgical intrusions beneath the skin depends on a case-by-case approach, in which the individual's interests in privacy and security are weighed against soci- ety's interests in conducting the procedure.”); Addington v. Texas, U. S. , () (“In considering what stand- ard should govern in a civil commitment proceeding, we must assess both the extent of the individual's interest in not being involuntarily confned indefnitely and the state's interest in Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. committing the emotionally disturbed under a particular standard of proof.”). Here too, a majority of the Court agrees that it is possible to balance benefts and burdens under the approach set forth in Pike. See ante, at – (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); post, at (opinion of Kavanaugh, J.). II This case comes before us on a Federal Rule of Civil Proce- dure (b)() motion to dismiss, and in my view the court below erred in how it analyzed petitioners' allegations under Pike. The Ninth Circuit reasoned that “[f]or dormant Com- merce Clause purposes, laws that increase compliance costs, without more, do not constitute a signifcant burden on inter- state commerce.” F. th, at . The panel then dis- missed petitioners' claim under Pike by concluding that the complaint alleged only an increase in compliance costs due to Proposition . F. th, at . But, as I read it, the complaint alleges more than simply an increase in “compli- ance costs,” unless such costs are defned to include all the fallout from a challenged regulatory regime. Petitioners identify broader, market-wide consequences of compliance— economic harms that our precedents have recognized can amount to a burden on interstate commerce. I would there- fore fnd that petitioners have stated a substantial burden against interstate commerce, vacate the judgment below, and remand this case for the Ninth Circuit to consider whether petitioners have plausibly claimed that the burden alleged outweighs any “putative local benefts” under Pike. U. S., at . A Our precedents have long distinguished the costs of com- plying with a given state regulation from other economic harms to the interstate market. Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines, Inc., U. S. (), illustrates the point. In that case, we considered an Illinois law requiring that trucks and trailers use a particular kind of mudguard. The “cost NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. of installing” the mudguards was “$ or more per vehicle,” amounting to “$, to $,” for the trucking companies at issue. Id., at . But beyond documenting those direct costs of complying with the Illinois law, we also noted other derivative harms fowing from the regulation. The mud- guard rule threatened “signifcant delay in an operation where prompt movement may be of the essence.” Id., at . Also, changing mudguard types when crossing into Il- linois from a State with a different standard would require “two to four hours of labor” and could prove “exceedingly dangerous.” Ibid. We concluded that “[c]ost taken into consideration” together with those “other factors” could con- stitute a burden on interstate commerce. Id., at (em- phasis added). Subsequent cases followed Bibb's logic by analyzing economic impact to the interstate market sepa- rately from immediate costs of compliance. See Kassel v. Consolidated Freightways Corp. of Del., U. S. , () (plurality opinion) (separating “increas[ed] . . . costs” from the fact that the challenged “law may aggravate . . . the problem of highway accidents” in describing the burden on interstate commerce); Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice, U. S. , , and n. () (analyzing an in- crease in “cost” independently of other consequential effects, such as “slow[ing] the movement of goods”). Pike itself did not confate harms to the interstate market with compliance costs. In Pike, we analyzed an Arizona law requiring that cantaloupes grown in the State be packed prior to shipment across state lines. U. S., at . We noted repeatedly that the regulation would require the ap- pellee to construct an unneeded packing facility in Arizona at a cost of $,. Id., at , , . But we consid- ered that cost together with the “nature” of a regulation “requiring business operations to be performed in the home State.” Id., at . The Court in Pike found both compli- ance costs and consequential market harms cognizable in de- termining whether the law at issue impermissibly burdened interstate commerce. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. The derivative harms we have long considered in this con- text are in no sense “noneconomic.” Ante, at (opinion of Gorsuch, J.). Regulations that “aggravate . . . the prob- lem of highway accidents,” Kassel, U. S., at , or “slow the movement of goods,” Rice, U. S., at , impose eco- nomic burdens, even if those burdens may be diffcult to quantify and may not arise immediately. Our cases provide no license to chalk up every economic harm—no matter how derivative—to a mere cost of compliance. Nor can the foregoing cases be dismissed because they either involved the instrumentalities of transportation or a state law born of discriminatory purpose. As discussed above, we have applied Pike to state laws that neither con- cerned transportation nor discriminated against commerce. See Edgar, U. S., at –. The Pike balance may well come out differently when it comes to interstate trans- portation, an area presenting a strong interest in “national uniformity.” Tracy, U. S., at , n. . But the error below does not concern a particular balancing of interests under Pike; it concerns how to analyze the burden on inter- state commerce in the frst place. B As in our prior cases, petitioners here allege both compli- ance costs and consequential harms to the interstate market. With respect to compliance costs, petitioners allege that Proposition demands signifcant capital expenditures for farmers who wish to sell into California. “Producers . . . will need to spend” between $ and $ million “of addi- tional capital in order to reconstruct their sow housing and overcome the productivity loss that Proposition imposes.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a. All told, compliance will “in- crease production costs per pig by over $ dollars per head, a .% cost increase at the farm level.” Ibid. Separate and apart from those costs, petitioners assert harms to the interstate market itself. The complaint alleges that the interstate pork market is so interconnected that pro- Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. ducers will be “forced to comply” with Proposition , “even though some or even most of the cuts from a hog are sold in other States.” Id., at a, a. Proposition may not expressly regulate farmers operating out of state. But due to the nature of the national pork market, California has enacted rules that carry implications for producers as far fung as Indiana and North Carolina, whether or not they sell in California. The panel below acknowledged petition- ers' allegation that, “[a]s a practical matter, given the inter- connected nature of the nationwide pork industry, all or most hog farmers will be forced to comply with California require- ments.” F. th, at . We have found such sweeping extraterritorial effects, even if not considered as a per se invalidation, to be pertinent in applying Pike. In Edgar, we assessed the constitutionality of an Illinois corporate takeover statute that authorized the secretary of state to scrutinize tender offers, even for trans- actions occurring wholly beyond the State's borders. As the majority explains, only a plurality of the Court in Edgar concluded that the Illinois statute constituted a per se viola- tion of the dormant Commerce Clause. See ante, at , n. . But a majority in Edgar analyzed those same extrater- ritorial effects under our approach in Pike, concluding that the “nationwide reach” of Illinois's law constituted an “obvi- ous burden . . . on interstate commerce.” U. S., at . The Ninth Circuit did not consider whether, by effectively requiring compliance by farmers who do not even wish to ship their product into California, Proposition has a “nationwide reach” similar to the regulation at issue in Edgar. The complaint further alleges other harms that cannot fairly be characterized as mere costs of compliance but that the panel below seems to have treated as such. Because of Proposition 's square footage requirements, farms will be compelled to adopt group housing, which is likely to produce “worse health outcome[s]” and “sprea[d] pathogens and dis- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Roberts, C. J. ease.” App. to Pet. for Cert. a. Such housing changes will also “upen[d] generations of animal husbandry, training, and knowledge.” Id., at a. And “[b]y preventing the use of breeding stalls during the to day period between weaning and confrmation of pregnancy, Proposition puts sows at greater risk of injury and stress during the vulnera- ble stages of breeding and gestation.” Id., at a. These consequential threats to animal welfare and industry prac- tice are diffcult to quantify and are not susceptible to catego- rization as mere costs of compliance. Writing for a plurality of the Court, Justice Gorsuch relies on this Court's decision in Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, U. S. (), to conclude that petitioners' complaint does not plead a substantial burden against inter- state commerce. See ante, at –; see also ante, at (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (also relying on Exxon). In Exxon, petroleum producers sued after Maryland prohibited their sale of retail gas within the State. U. S., at . The Court concluded that “interstate commerce is not sub- jected to an impermissible burden simply because an oth- erwise valid regulation causes some business[es] to shift from one interstate supplier to another.” Id., at . Fair enough. But the complaint before us pleads facts going far beyond the allegations in Exxon. The producers in Exxon operated within Maryland and wished to continue doing so. By contrast, petitioners here allege that Proposition will force compliance on farmers who do not wish to sell into the California market, exacerbate health issues in the national pig population, and undercut established operational prac- tices. In my view, these allegations amount to economic harms against “the interstate market”—not just “particular interstate frms,” ibid.—such that they constitute a substan- tial burden under Pike. At the very least, the harms al- leged by petitioners are categorically different from the cost of installing $ mudguards, Bibb, U. S., at , or of NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Roberts, C. J. constructing a $, cantaloupe packing facility, Pike, U. S., at . Justice Gorsuch asks what separates my approach from the per se extraterritoriality rule I reject. Ante, at . It is the difference between mere cross-border effects and broad impact requiring, in this case, compliance even by pro- ducers who do not wish to sell in the regulated market. And even then, we only invalidate a regulation if that burden proves “clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefts.” Pike, U. S., at . Adhering to that estab- lished approach in this case would not convert the inquiry into a per se rule against extraterritorial regulation. Rather than analyze petitioners' alleged harms to the in- terstate market on their own terms, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that the “crux” of the complaint is “the cost of compliance with Proposition .” F. th, at . Such “cost increases,” the panel below concluded, “do not qualify as a substantial burden to interstate commerce.” Ibid. Those statements ignore the industry-wide harms discussed above. The panel below itself recognized that petitioners “plausi- bly alleged that Proposition will have dramatic upstream effects and require pervasive changes to the pork production industry nationwide.” Ibid. Yet it nevertheless reduced the myriad harms detailed by petitioners in their complaint to so-called “compliance costs” and wrote them off as inde- pendently insuffcient to state a claim under Pike. Our precedents do not support such an approach. A majority of the Court agrees that—were it possible to balance benefts and burdens in this context—petitioners have plausibly stated a substantial burden against interstate commerce. See ante, at (opinion of Barrett, J.) (“The complaint plausibly alleges that Proposition 's costs are pervasive, burdensome, and will be felt primarily (but not exclusively) outside California.”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. * * * In my view, petitioners plausibly allege a substantial bur- den against interstate commerce. I would therefore remand the case for the Ninth Circuit to decide whether it is plausi- ble that the “burden . . . is clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefts.” Pike, U. S., at . Justice Kavanaugh, concurring in part and dissenting in part. In today's fractured decision, six Justices of this Court af- frmatively retain the longstanding Pike balancing test for analyzing dormant Commerce Clause challenges to state eco- nomic regulations. Ante, at – (Sotomayor, J., joined by Kagan, J., concurring in part); ante, at – (Rob- erts, C. J., joined by Alito, Kavanaugh, and Jackson, JJ., concurring in part and dissenting in part); see Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., U. S. (). Although Parts IV–B and IV–D of Justice Gorsuch's opinion would essentially overrule the Pike balancing test, those subsections are not controlling precedent, as I understand it. But Part IV–C of Justice Gorsuch's opinion is control- ling precedent for purposes of the Court's judgment as to the plaintiffs' Pike claim. There, a four-Justice plurality of the Court applies Pike and rejects the plaintiffs' dormant Commerce Clause challenge under Pike. The plurality rea- sons that the plaintiffs' complaint did not suffciently allege that the California law at issue here imposed a substantial burden on interstate commerce under Pike. I respectfully disagree with that conclusion for the reasons well stated in The Chief Justice's separate opinion. I add this opinion to point out that state economic regula- tions like California's Proposition may raise questions not The Court also unanimously rejects plaintiffs' separate claim under Healy v. Beer Institute, U. S. (). Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. only under the Commerce Clause, but also under the Import- Export Clause, the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and the Full Faith and Credit Clause. I In the s, the Framers in Philadelphia and the people of the United States discarded the Articles of Confederation and adopted a new Constitution. They did so in order to, among other things, create a national economic market and overcome state restrictions on free trade—and thereby pro- mote the general welfare. By the summer of , when the delegates met in Philadelphia, state interference with interstate commerce was cutting off the lifeblood of the Na- tion. See Tennessee Wine and Spirits Retailers Assn. v. Thomas, U. S. –––, ––– (). For the delegates, there- fore, “removing state trade barriers was a principal reason for the adoption of the Constitution.” Ibid. In the state ratifying conventions, moreover, “fostering free trade among the States was prominently cited as a reason for ratifcation.” Id., at –––. The Constitution crafted by the Framers contains several provisions protecting free trade among the States. The Constitution's protection of free trade among the States has resulted in an extraordinary -year record of progress: It has facilitated robust economic activity within the United States and has helped generate remarkable (albeit at times uneven) economic prosperity and growth in America relative to the other nations of the world. This case involves the American pork industry, which today is a $ billion-plus industry that generates hundreds of thousands of American jobs and serves millions of Ameri- can consumers. Importantly for this case, the vast majority of pig farms are located in States other than California— such as Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana, and North Caro- lina. And the vast majority of pork is likewise produced in States other than California. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. In , California voters nonetheless passed a ballot ini- tiative, Proposition , that not only regulates pig farming and pork production in California, but also in effect regulates pig farming and pork production throughout the United States. Under Proposition , all pork sold to consumers in California must be derived from pigs raised in compliance with California's strict standards for pig farming, including California's minimum square footage of space required for housing individual pigs. By its terms, Proposition ap- plies to pigs raised and pork produced outside California. California's requirements for pig farms and pork produc- tion depart signifcantly from common agricultural practices that are lawful in major pig-farming and pork-producing States such as Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana, and North Carolina. See Brief for Indiana et al. as Amici Curiae – . Moreover, according to various amici, some of the sci- entifc literature suggests that California's requirements could worsen animal health and welfare. See, e. g., Brief for American Association of Swine Veterinarians as Amicus Cu- riae –; Brief for State Pork Producers Association of Iowa et al. as Amici Curiae –. Regardless of whether the amici are correct on that point, it is evident that absent California's Proposition , relatively few pig farmers and pork producers in the United States would follow the prac- tices that California now demands. Yet American pig farm- ers and pork producers have little choice but to comply with California's regulatory dictates. It would be prohibitively expensive and practically all but impossible for pig farmers and pork producers to segregate individual pigs based on their ultimate marketplace destination in California or else- where. And California's -percent share of the consumer pork market makes it economically infeasible for many pig farmers and pork producers to exit the California market. California's required changes to pig-farming and pork- production practices throughout the United States will cost American farmers and pork producers hundreds of millions Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. (if not billions) of dollars. And those costs for pig farmers and pork producers will be passed on, in many cases, to American consumers of pork via higher pork prices nation- wide. The increased costs may also result in lower wages and reduced benefts (or layoffs) for the American workers who work on pig farms and in meatpacking plants. See gen- erally Brief for Indiana et al. as Amici Curiae –; Brief for North Carolina Chamber Legal Institute et al. as Amici Curiae –. In short, through Proposition , California is forcing mas- sive changes to pig-farming and pork-production practices throughout the United States. Proposition therefore substantially burdens the interstate pork market. See ante, at – (opinion of Roberts, C. J.). Under the Constitution, Congress could enact a national law imposing minimum space requirements or other regula- tions on pig farms involved in the interstate pork market. In the absence of action by Congress, each State may of course adopt health and safety regulations for products sold in that State. And each State may regulate as it sees ft with respect to farming, manufacturing, and production practices in that State. Through Proposition , however, California has tried something quite different and unusual. It has attempted, in essence, to unilaterally impose its moral and policy preferences for pig farming and pork production on the rest of the Nation. It has sought to deny market access to out-of-state pork producers unless their farming and production practices in those other States comply with California's dictates. The State has aggressively pro- The majority opinion dismisses this case as not presenting a “weighty” issue. Ante, at . That phrasing is misplaced. This case presents a weighty constitutional question, as the Framers surely would have recog- nized. And it is important for the American workers, farmers, and con- sumers who will be signifcantly affected by the outcome of today's decision. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. pounded a “California knows best” economic philosophy— where California in effect seeks to regulate pig farming and pork production in all of the United States. California's ap- proach undermines federalism and the authority of individ- ual States by forcing individuals and businesses in one State to conduct their farming, manufacturing, and production practices in a manner required by the laws of a different State. Notably, future state laws of this kind might not be con- fned to the pork industry. As the amici brief of States points out, what if a state law prohibits the sale of fruit picked by noncitizens who are unlawfully in the country? Brief for Indiana et al. as Amici Curiae . What if a state law prohibits the sale of goods produced by workers paid less than $ per hour? Or as those States suggest, what if a state law prohibits “the retail sale of goods from producers that do not pay for employees' birth control or abortions” (or alternatively, that do pay for employees' birth control or abortions)? Ibid. If upheld against all constitutional challenges, California's novel and far-reaching regulation could provide a blueprint for other States. California's law thus may foreshadow a new era where States shutter their markets to goods produced in a way that offends their moral or policy prefer- ences—and in doing so, effectively force other States to reg- ulate in accordance with those idiosyncratic state demands. That is not the Constitution the Framers adopted in Phila- delphia in . The portions of Justice Gorsuch's opinion that speak for only three Justices (Parts IV–B and IV–D) refer to The Chief Justice's opinion as a “dissent.” Ante, at –, –. But on the question of whether to retain the Pike balancing test in cases like this one, The Chief Jus- tice's opinion refects the majority view because six Justices agree to retain the Pike balancing test: The Chief Justice and Justices Alito, Sotomayor, Kagan, Kavanaugh, and Jackson. On that legal issue, Justice Gorsuch's opinion advances a minority view. Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. II Thus far, legal challenges to California's Proposition have focused on the Commerce Clause and this Court's dor- mant Commerce Clause precedents. Although the Court today rejects the plaintiffs' dormant Commerce Clause challenge as insuffciently pled, state laws like Proposition implicate not only the Commerce Clause, but also potentially several other constitutional provisions, including the Import-Export Clause, the Privileges and Im- munities Clause, and the Full Faith and Credit Clause. First, the Import-Export Clause prohibits any State, ab- sent “the Consent of the Congress,” from imposing “any Im- posts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing” its “inspection Laws.” Art. I, § , cl. . This Court has limited that Clause to im- ports from foreign countries. See Woodruff v. Parham, Wall. , – (). As Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas have explained, that limitation may be mistaken as a matter of constitutional text and history: Properly inter- preted, the Import-Export Clause may also prevent States “from imposing certain especially burdensome” taxes and duties on imports from other States—not just on imports from foreign countries. Comptroller of Treasury of Md. v. Wynne, U. S. , () (Scalia, J., dissenting); see also Camps Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, U. S. , – () (Thomas, J., dissenting); Brown v. Maryland, Wheat. , −, (). In other words, if one State conditions sale of a good on the use of preferred farming, manufacturing, or production practices in another State where the good was grown or made, serious questions may arise under the Import-Export Clause. I do not take a position here on whether such an argument ultimately would prevail. I note only that the question warrants additional consideration in a future case. Second, the Privileges and Immunities Clause provides that the “Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privi- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. leges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.” Art. IV, § , cl. ; see South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., U. S. –––, ––– – ––– () (Gorsuch, J., concurring); see also Tyler Pipe Industries, Inc. v. Washington State Dept. of Revenue, U. S. , () (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part); J. Eule, Laying the Dormant Commerce Clause To Rest, Yale L. J. , − (). Under this Court's precedents, one State's efforts to ef- fectively regulate farming, manufacturing, or production in other States could raise signifcant questions under that Clause. Again, I express no view on whether such an argu- ment ultimately would prevail. But the issue warrants fur- ther analysis in a future case. Third, the Full Faith and Credit Clause requires each State to afford “Full Faith and Credit” to the “public Acts” of “every other State.” Art. IV, § . That Clause prevents States from “adopting any policy of hostility to the public Acts” of another State. Carroll v. Lanza, U. S. , (). A State's effort to regulate farming, manufacturing, and production practices in another State (in a manner dif- ferent from how that other State's laws regulate those prac- tices) could in some circumstances raise questions under that Clause. See, e. g., M. Rosen, State Extraterritorial Powers Reconsidered, Notre Dame L. Rev. , () (“[T]he Full Faith and Credit Clause is the more natural source for limitations on state extraterritorial powers be- cause that clause at its core is concerned with extraterritori- ality”); see also D. Laycock, Equal Citizens of Equal and Ter- ritorial States: The Constitutional Foundations of Choice of Law, Colum. L. Rev. , , − (). For example, the plaintiffs in this case say that Ohio law expressly authorizes pig farmers in Ohio to do precisely what California's Proposition forbids. Brief for Petitioners – ; see Ohio Admin. Code §§ :−−(G)(), () (). If so, the Full Faith and Credit Clause might preclude Cali- fornia from enacting conficting regulations on Ohio pig farmers. Page Proof Pending Publication NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL v. ROSS Opinion of Kavanaugh, J. Once again, I express no view on whether such an argu- ment ultimately would succeed. But the question deserves further examination in a future case. * * * As I understand it, the controlling plurality of the Court (refected in Part IV–C of Justice Gorsuch’s opinion) today rejects the plaintiffs' dormant Commerce Clause challenge on the ground that the plaintiffs' complaint does not suff- ciently allege that the California law at issue here imposes a substantial burden on interstate commerce under Pike. See ante, at – (plurality opinion); ante, at – (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). It appears, therefore, that properly pled dormant Commerce Clause challenges under Pike to laws like California's Proposition (or even to Proposition it- self) could succeed in the future—or at least survive past the motion-to-dismiss stage. Regardless, it will be important in future cases to consider that state laws like Proposition also may raise substantial constitutional questions under the Import-Export Clause, the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: p. , line from bottom, “ th ” is replaced with “ F. th ” p. , line from bottom, “interests” is replaced with “benefts”