PRELIMINARY PRINT Volume U. S. Part Pages – OFFICIAL REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT June , REBECCA A. WOMELDORF reporter of decisions Page Proof Pending Publication NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. , pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors. Page Proof Pending Publication OCTOBER TERM, Syllabus SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC, fka SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, INC., et al. v. PIRANI certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit No. –. Argued April , —Decided June , This case arises from a public offering of securities governed by the Secu- rities Act of , and the issue presented is what a public buyer must allege to state a claim under § of the Act. The Act requires a company to register the securities it intends to offer to the public with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See, e. g., U. S. C. §§ b(a)(), e; see also § d. As part of that process, a company must prepare a registration statement that includes detailed informa- tion about the frm's business and fnancial health so prospective buyers may fairly assess whether to invest. See, e. g., §§ f, g, aa. The law imposes strict liability on issuing companies when their registration statements contain material misstatements or misleading omissions. In this case, Slack Technologies—a technology company that offers a platform for instant messaging—conducted a direct listing to sell its shares to the public on the New York Stock Exchange in . As part of that process, Slack fled a registration statement for a specifed num- ber of registered shares it intended to offer in its direct listing. Under the direct listing process, holders of preexisting unregistered shares in Slack were free to sell them to the public right away. Slack's direct listing offered for purchase million registered shares and million unregistered shares. Fiyyaz Pirani bought , Slack shares on the day Slack went public, and later bought , additional shares. When the stock price dropped, Mr. Pirani fled a class-action lawsuit against Slack alleging, as relevant here, that Slack had violated § of the Act by fling a materially misleading registration statement. Slack moved to dismiss, arguing that the complaint failed to state a claim under § because Mr. Pirani had not alleged that he purchased shares traceable to the allegedly misleading registration statement, leaving open the possibility that he purchased shares not registered by means of the registration statement. The district court denied the mo- tion to dismiss but certifed its ruling for interlocutory appeal. The Ninth Circuit accepted the appeal and a divided panel affrmed. Held: Section of the Act requires a plaintiff to plead and prove that he purchased securities registered under a materially misleading registration statement. The relevant language of § (a) authorizes an SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC v. PIRANI Syllabus individual to sue for a material misstatement or omission in a registra- tion statement when the individual has acquired “such security.” Slack argues the term “such security” refers to a security issued pursuant to the allegedly misleading registration statement; Mr. Pirani says that the term may encompass a security not registered under an allegedly misleading registration statement. While the word “such” usually re- fers to something that has already been described, there is no clear referent in § (a) defning what “such security” means. As a result, the Court must ascertain the statute's critical referent “from the context or circumstances.” Context provides several clues. First, the statute imposes liability for false statements or misleading omissions in “the registration state- ment.” § k (emphasis added). The statute uses the defnite article to reference the particular registration statement alleged to be mislead- ing, and in this way seems to suggest the plaintiff must “acquir[e] such security” under that document's terms. Ibid. In addition, the statute repeatedly uses the word “such” to narrow the law's focus—for example, referring to “such part” of the registration statement that contains a misstatement or misleading omission—suggesting that when it comes to “such security,” the law speaks to a security registered under the partic- ular registration statement alleged to contain a falsehood or misleading omission. Section of the statute indicates that a registration state- ment is “effective” for “only . . . the securities specifed therein,” which is also hard to square with Mr. Pirani's reading. Damages caps in the statute also make less sense with Mr. Pirani's account of the statute. Collectively, these contextual clues persuade the Court that Slack's reading of the law is the better one. While direct listings like the one here are new, the Court's conclusion is not. The majority of courts have for years held that § (a) liability extends only to shares that are trace- able to an allegedly defective registration. Resisting this conclusion, Mr. Pirani argues that the Court should read the phrase “such security” to include not only securities registered under a defective registration statement but also other securities that bear some sort of minimal relationship to a defective registration state- ment. Mr. Pirani contends that but for the existence of Slack's registra- tion statement for the registered shares, its unregistered shares would not have been eligible for sale to the public. But Mr. Pirani does not explain what the limits of his rule would be, how the Court might derive them from § , or how any of this can be squared with the various contextual clues identifed which suggest that liability runs with regis- tered shares alone. Mr. Pirani argues that if Congress wanted liability under § (a) to attach only to securities issued pursuant to a particular registration statement, it could have borrowed language from § to Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus achieve that result. On its own terms, that argument also shows that Congress could have written § (a) to explain more clearly that liability attaches to “any security” or “any security” bearing some specifed rela- tionship to a registration statement. Finally, Mr. Pirani argues that adopting a broader reading of “such security” would expand liability for falsehoods and misleading omissions and thus better accomplish the purpose of the Act. The Court cannot endorse that sort of reason- ing. Nor is Mr. Pirani's account of the law's purpose altogether obvious; an inference in the opposite direction is at least equally plausible. In any event, the Court's function is to discern and apply existing law. The Court concludes that the better reading of § requires a plaintiff to plead and prove that he purchased shares traceable to the allegedly defective registration statement, and remands for the Ninth Circuit to consider that question in the frst instance. Pp. –. F. th , vacated and remanded. Gorsuch, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. Thomas G. Hungar argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Jacob T. Spencer, Michael D. Celio, Matthew S. Kahn, Michael J. Kahn, Daniel R. Adler, and Matt Aiden Getz. Kevin K. Russell argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief were Thomas C. Goldstein, Erica Oleszczuk Evans, Lawrence P. Eagel, and Marion C. Passmore.* *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the Cato Institute by Mark C. Fleming, Timothy J. Perla, and Robert A. Donoghue; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America et al. by Melissa Arbus Sherry, Andrew B. Clubok, Susan E. Engel, Brent T. Murphy, Kevin Carroll, Erica Klenicki, and Michael A. Tilghman II; for the Washington Legal Foundation by James N. Kramer, Cory L. Andrews, and John M. Masslon II; and for Hon. Jay Clayton et al. by Boris Feldman and Doru Gavril. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for Former SEC Offcials by Carolyn E. Shapiro, John Paul Schnapper-Casteras, and Dan- iel P. Chiplock; for Institutional Investors by Mr. Schnapper-Casteras and Lauren Amy Ormsbee; and for Nokota Capital Management, LP, by Sheila A. Sadighi, Lawrence M. Rolnick, Richard A. Bodnar, and Bran- don Fierro. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for Evidence and Civil Procedure Scholars by Jeremy A. Lieberman, Emma Gilmore, Marc I. Gross, and Page Proof Pending Publication SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC v. PIRANI Opinion of the Court Justice Gorsuch delivered the opinion of the Court. This case concerns the meaning of one provision of the federal securities laws. For many years, lower federal courts have held that liability under § of the Securities Act of attaches only when a buyer can trace the shares he has purchased to a false or misleading registration state- ment. Recently, the Ninth Circuit parted ways with these decisions, holding that a plaintiff may sometimes recover under § even when the shares he owns are not traceable to a defective registration statement. The question we face is which of these approaches best conforms to the statute's terms. I Together, the Securities Act of , Stat. , U. S. C. § a et seq., and the Securities Exchange Act of , Stat. , U. S. C. § a et seq., form the backbone of American securities law. The frst is “ `narrower' ” and fo- cused “ `primarily' ” on the regulation of new offerings. Gustafson v. Alloyd Co., U. S. , () (quoting Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores, U. S. , ()). Generally speaking, the Act requires a com- pany to register the securities it intends to offer to the public with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). See, e. g., U. S. C. §§ b(a)(), e; see also § d. As part of that process, a company must prepare a registration state- ment that includes detailed information about the frm's busi- ness and fnancial health so prospective buyers may fairly assess whether to invest. See, e. g., §§ f, g, aa. The law imposes strict liability on issuing companies when their registration statements contain material misstatements or misleading omissions. § k; see also Herman & MacLean v. Huddleston, U. S. , (). Stephen A. Saltzburg, pro se; and for Law and Business Professors by Laura Posner, Carol V. Gilden, and Ira A. Schochet. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court The Act sweeps more broadly. Among other things, it requires publicly traded companies to provide ongoing dis- closures and regulates trading on secondary markets. See, e. g., §§ m, o; T. Hazen, Federal Securities Law – (th ed. ) (Hazen). This law's main liability provision sweeps more broadly too. It allows suits in connection with the purchase or sale of “any security,” whether registered or not. § j(b); see also CFR § .b– (); Herman & MacLean, U. S., at . But to prevail under this provi- sion, a plaintiff must prove that any material misleading statement or omission was made “with scienter, i. e., with intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud.” Id., at . This case arises from a public offering governed by the Act. Typically, when a company goes public it issues new shares pursuant to a registration statement. That reg- istration statement is fled with the SEC and made available to the public. Investment banks underwrite the offering, usually by buying these new registered shares at a negoti- ated price and then selling them to investors at a higher price. In this way, underwriters often carry the risk of loss should they fail to sell the shares at a proft. See L. Loss, J. Seligman, & T. Paredes, Securities Regulation – (th ed. ); Hazen –. Of course, a company's early investors and employees may own preexisting shares. Often, too, these shares are not subject to registration requirements. See, e. g., U. S. C. § d(a)() (exempting, among other things, transactions “not involving any public offering”); CFR §.(a)()(i) (recognizing as exempt certain securities “acquired directly . . . from the issuer . . . in a transaction or chain of transac- tions not involving any public offering”); Hazen –. To prevent the stock price from falling once public trading be- gins, underwriters may require insiders to consent to a “lockup agreement”—a commitment to hold their unregis- tered shares for a period of time before selling them on the new public market. See J. Bartlett, Equity Finance: Ven- Page Proof Pending Publication SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC v. PIRANI Opinion of the Court ture Capital, Buyouts, Restructurings and Reorganizations § ., p. (d ed. ). Initial public offerings (IPOs) are an effective way of rais- ing capital, but they also have drawbacks. Among other things, they can involve signifcant transaction costs. Nor is raising capital the only reason frms might wish to go pub- lic; some may simply wish to afford their shareholders (whether investors, employees, or others) the convenience of being able to sell their existing shares on a public exchange. See Fed. Reg. (). Several years ago, a number of companies approached the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) about the possibility of selling shares publicly on that exchange without an IPO. Ibid. Ultimately, the NYSE proposed rules to facilitate and regulate these “direct listings,” which the SEC approved with modifcations. Fed. Reg. (). Slack is a technology company that offers a platform for instant messaging. It conducted a direct listing on the NYSE in . Pirani v. Slack Technologies, Inc., F. th , , (CA ). As part of that process, Slack fled a registration statement for a specifed number of registered shares it intended to offer in its direct listing. Pirani v. Slack Technologies, Inc., F. Supp. d , (ND Cal. ). But because Slack employed a direct listing rather than an IPO, there was no underwriter and no lockup agree- ment. F. th, at (Miller, J., dissenting). Accordingly, holders of preexisting unregistered shares were free to sell them to the public right away. See ibid. All told, Slack's direct listing offered for purchase million registered shares and million unregistered shares. Fiyyaz Pirani bought , Slack shares on the day Slack went public. He bought , additional shares over the next few months. When the stock price later dropped, Mr. Pirani fled a class-action lawsuit against Slack. In that suit, he alleged that Slack had violated §§ and of the Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Act by fling a materially misleading registration state- ment. Ibid. Slack moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. Sections and , Slack argued, authorize suit only for those who hold shares issued pursuant to a false or mis- leading registration statement. And this feature of the law, the company said, was dispositive in this case because Mr. Pirani had not alleged that he purchased shares trace- able to the allegedly misleading registration statement. For all anyone could tell, he may have purchased unregistered shares unconnected to the registration statement and its rep- resentations about the frm's business and fnancial health. Of course, Slack would go on to acknowledge that the Act allows investors to recover for fraud in the sale of unregistered shares upon proof of scienter. But, the com- pany emphasized, Mr. Pirani had not sought to sue under that law. Ultimately, the district court denied the motion to dismiss but certified its ruling for interlocutory appeal. F. Supp. d, at , –. The Ninth Circuit accepted the appeal and a divided panel affrmed. F. th, at , . In dissent, Judge Miller argued that §§ and of the Act require a plaintiff to plead and prove that he pur- chased securities registered under a materially misleading registration statement, something Mr. Pirani had not done. Id., at –. Judge Miller pointed out that a long line of lower court cases have interpreted § as applying only to shares purchased pursuant to a registration statement. Id., at . Because the Ninth Circuit's decision created a split of authority in the courts of appeals about § 's scope, we granted certiorari. U. S. ––– (). The parties have litigated this case on the premise that Slack was not required to register all of the shares sold in its direct listing. For the frst time before this Court, Mr. Pirani challenges that premise, suggesting that it was incumbent on Slack to register all the securities sold in its Page Proof Pending Publication SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC v. PIRANI Opinion of the Court II We begin with the relevant language of § (a) of the Act. It provides: “In case any part of the registration statement, when such part became effective, contained an untrue state- ment of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, any person ac- quiring such security (unless it is proved that at the time of such acquisition he knew of such untruth or omission) may, either at law or in equity, in any court of compe- tent jurisdiction, sue [certain enumerated parties].” U. S. C. § k(a). The statute authorizes an individual to sue for a material misstatement or omission in a registration statement when he has acquired “such security.” The question we face is what this means. Does the term “such security” refer to a security issued pursuant to the allegedly misleading regis- tration statement? Or can the term also sometimes encom- pass a security that was not issued pursuant to the allegedly misleading registration statement? Slack advances the frst interpretation; Mr. Pirani defends the second. Immediately, we face a bit of a challenge. The word “such” usually refers to something that has already been “de- scribed” or that is “implied or intelligible from the context or circumstances.” Concise Oxford Dictionary of Current English (); see also Webster's New International Dictionary (d ed. ). But there is no clear referent in § (a) telling us what “such security” means. As a result, we must ascertain the statute's critical referent “from the context or circumstances.” As it turns out, context provides several clues. For one thing, the statute imposes liability for false statements or direct listings on the NYSE. Brief for Respondent –, n. . As he acknowledges, however, this issue is not properly presented for decision, ibid., and so we do not pass upon it. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court misleading omissions in “the registration statement.” § k (emphasis added). Not just a registration statement or any registration statement. The statute uses the defnite article to reference the particular registration statement alleged to be misleading, and in this way seems to suggest the plaintiff must “acquir[e] such security” under that document's terms. Ibid. For another thing, the statute repeatedly uses the word “such” to narrow the law's focus. The statute directs us to “such part” of the registration statement that contains a mis- statement or misleading omission. It speaks of “such acqui- sition” when a person has acquired securities pursuant to the registration statement. And it points to “such untruth or omission” found in the registration statement. Each time, the law trains our view on particular things or statements. All of which suggests that, when it comes to “such security,” the law speaks to a security registered under the particular registration statement alleged to contain a falsehood or mis- leading omission. Other provisions in the Act follow suit. Under § , for example, “[u]nless a registration statement is in effect as to a security,” it is unlawful “to sell such security.” § e(a). Here, the term “such security” clearly refers to shares sub- ject to registration. Meanwhile, § provides that a “regis- tration statement shall be deemed effective only as to the securities specifed therein as proposed to be offered.” § f(a). It's an instruction that would seem hard to square with Mr. Pirani's broader reading of § (a)—after all, adopt- ing that reading would give the registration statement effect (in the sense of creating liability) for securities that are not “specifed” in the registration statement “as proposed to be offered.” Beyond these clues lies still another. Section (e) caps damages against an underwriter in a § suit to the “total price at which the securities underwritten by him and dis- tributed to the public were offered to the public.” § k(e). This provision thus ties the maximum available recovery to Page Proof Pending Publication SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC v. PIRANI Opinion of the Court the value of the registered shares alone. It's another fea- ture that makes little sense on Mr. Pirani's account, for if § (a) liability extended beyond registered shares presum- ably available damages would too. See Barnes v. Osofsky, F. d , (CA ); Brief for SEC as Amicus Cu- riae in Barnes v. Osofsky, No. etc. (CA), pp. –. Collectively, these contextual clues persuade us that Slack's reading of the law is the better one. Nor is anything we say here particularly novel. For while direct listings are new, the question how far § (a) liability extends is not. More than half a century ago, Judge Friendly addressed the question in an opinion for the Second Circuit in Barnes and concluded that “the narrower reading” we adopt today is the more “natural” one. F. d, at , . Since Barnes, every court of appeals to consider the issue has reached the same conclusion: To bring a claim under § , the securities held by the plaintiff must be traceable to the particular reg- istration statement alleged to be false or misleading. Until this decision, even the Ninth Circuit seemed to take the same view. Hertzberg v. Dignity Partners, Inc., F. d , , and n. (). Resisting this conclusion, Mr. Pirani argues that we should read the phrase “such security” to include not only securities traceable to a defective registration statement. We should also read the phrase to include other securities that bear some sort of minimal relationship to a defective registration statement. And, he argues, a reading like that would allow his case to proceed because, but for the existence of Slack's registration statement for the registered shares, its unregis- tered shares would not have been eligible for sale to the See, e. g., In re Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Securities Litigation, F. d , – (CA ); Rosenzweig v. Azurix Corp., F. d , (CA ); Lee v. Ernst & Young, LLP, F. d , – (CA ); Joseph v. Wiles, F. d , (CA ), abrogated on other grounds, California Public Employees' Retirement System v. ANZ Securities, Inc., U. S. (); APA Excelsior III L. P. v. Premiere Technologies, Inc., F. d , (CA ). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court public. Brief for Respondent –. Beyond assuring us that the rule he proposes would save his case, however, Mr. Pirani does not offer much more. He does not explain what the limits of his rule would be, how we might derive them from § , or how any of this can be squared with the various contextual clues we have encountered suggesting that liability runs with registered shares alone. Perhaps the closest Mr. Pirani comes to answering these questions comes when he directs us to § . If Congress wanted liability under § (a) to attach only to securities is- sued pursuant to a particular registration statement, he ob- serves, it could have simply borrowed similar language from § . That provision, he stresses, speaks of “any security with respect to which a registration statement has been fled.” § e(b)(). But even taken on its own terms, this argument does not prove much. If Mr. Pirani's example shows that Congress could have written § (a) to explain more clearly that liability attaches only to securities issued pursuant to a particular registration statement, it also shows that Congress could have written § (a) to explain more clearly that liability attaches to “any security” or “any secu- rity” bearing some specifed relationship to a registration statement. That Congress could have been clearer, no one disputes. But none of this proves it adopted anything like the rule Mr. Pirani proposes. Finally, Mr. Pirani argues from policy and purpose. Adopting a broader reading of “such security” would, he says, expand liability for falsehoods and misleading omissions and thus better accomplish the purpose of the Act. We cannot endorse this line of reasoning. This Court does not “presume . . . that any result consistent with [one party's] account of the statute's overarching goal must be the law.” Henson v. Santander Consumer USA Inc., U. S. , (). Nor, for that matter, is Mr. Pirani's account of the law's purpose altogether obvious. As we have seen, the Act is “limited in scope.” Herman & MacLean, U. S., at . Its main liability provision imposes strict lia- Page Proof Pending Publication SLACK TECHNOLOGIES, LLC v. PIRANI Opinion of the Court bility on issuers for material falsehoods or misleading omis- sions in the registration statement. Ibid. Meanwhile, the Act requires ongoing disclosures for publicly traded companies and its main liability provision allows suits involv- ing any sale of a security but only on proof of scienter. Ibid.; Hazen –. Given this design, it seems equally possible that Congress sought a balanced liability regime that allows a narrow class of claims to proceed on lesser proof but requires a higher standard of proof to sustain a broader set of claims. III Naturally, Congress remains free to revise the securities laws at any time, whether to address the rise of direct list- ings or any other development. Our only function lies in discerning and applying the law as we fnd it. And because we think the better reading of the particular provision be- fore us requires a plaintiff to plead and prove that he pur- chased shares traceable to the allegedly defective registra- tion statement, we vacate the Ninth Circuit's judgment holding otherwise. Whether Mr. Pirani's pleadings can sat- isfy § (a) as properly construed, we leave for that court to decide in the frst instance on remand. It is so ordered. As we noted at the outset, the parties do not just spar over the best interpretation of § and its application to this case. They do the same when it comes to § . See Part I, supra. But we have no need to reach the merits of that particular dispute. The Ninth Circuit said that its deci- sion to permit Mr. Pirani's § claim to proceed “follow[ed] from” its analy- sis of his § claim. F. th , (). And because we fnd that court's § analysis fawed, we think the best course is to vacate its judg- ment with respect to Mr. Pirani's § claim as well for reconsideration in the light of our holding today about the meaning of § . In doing so, we express no views about the proper interpretation of § or its application to this case. Nor do we endorse the Ninth Circuit's apparent belief that § and § necessarily travel together, but instead caution that the two provisions contain distinct language that warrants careful consideration. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: p. , line , “alternate” is deleted