PRELIMINARY PRINT Volume U. S. Part Pages – OFFICIAL REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT May , REBECCA A. WOMELDORF reporter of decisions Page Proof Pending Publication NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. , pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors. Page Proof Pending Publication OCTOBER TERM, Syllabus SACKETT et ux. v. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY et al. certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit No. –. Argued October , —Decided May , Petitioners Michael and Chantell Sackett purchased property near Priest Lake, Idaho, and began backflling the lot with dirt to prepare for build- ing a home. The Environmental Protection Agency informed the Sack- etts that their property contained wetlands and that their backflling violated the Clean Water Act, which prohibits discharging pollutants into “the waters of the United States.” U. S. C. § (). The EPA ordered the Sacketts to restore the site, threatening penalties of over $, per day. The EPA classifed the wetlands on the Sacketts' lot as “waters of the United States” because they were near a ditch that fed into a creek, which fed into Priest Lake, a navigable, intrastate lake. The Sacketts sued, alleging that their property was not “waters of the United States.” The District Court entered summary judgment for the EPA. The Ninth Circuit affrmed, holding that the CWA covers wet- lands with an ecologically signifcant nexus to traditional navigable wa- ters and that the Sacketts' wetlands satisfy that standard. Held: The CWA's use of “waters” in § () refers only to “ `geographi- c[al] features' that are described in ordinary parlance as `streams, oceans, rivers, and lakes' ” and to adjacent wetlands that are “indistin- guishable” from those bodies of water due to a continuous surface con- nection. Rapanos v. United States, U. S. , , , (plural- ity opinion). To assert jurisdiction over an adjacent wetland under the CWA, a party must establish “frst, that the adjacent [body of water constitutes] . . . `water[s] of the United States,' (i. e., a relatively perma- nent body of water connected to traditional interstate navigable wa- ters); and second, that the wetland has a continuous surface connection with that water, making it diffcult to determine where the `water' ends and the `wetland' begins.” Id., at . Pp. –. (a) The uncertain meaning of “the waters of the United States” has been a persistent problem, sparking decades of agency action and litigation. Resolving the CWA's applicability to wetlands requires a review of the history surrounding the interpretation of that phrase. Pp. –. () During the period relevant to this case, the two federal agencies charged with enforcement of the CWA—the EPA and the Army Corps SACKETT v. EPA Syllabus of Engineers—similarly defned “the waters of the United States” broadly to encompass “[a]ll . . . waters” that “could affect interstate or foreign commerce.” CFR § .(s)(). The agencies likewise gave an expansive interpretation of wetlands adjacent to those waters, de- fining “adjacent” to mean “bordering, contiguous, or neighboring.” § .(b). In United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. , the Court confronted the Corps' assertion of authority under the CWA over wetlands that “actually abut[ted] on a navigable water- way.” Id., at . Although concerned that the wetlands fell outside “traditional notions of `waters,' ” the Court deferred to the Corps, rea- soning that “the transition from water to solid ground is not necessarily or even typically an abrupt one.” Id., at –. Following River- side Bayview, the agencies issued the “migratory bird rule,” extending CWA jurisdiction to any waters or wetlands that “are or would be used as [a] habitat” by migratory birds or endangered species. Fed. Reg. . The Court rejected the rule after the Corps sought to apply it to several isolated ponds located wholly within the State of Illinois, hold- ing that the CWA does not “exten[d] to ponds that are not adjacent to open water.” Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers, U. S. , (SWANCC) (emphasis deleted). The agencies responded by instructing their feld agents to determine the scope of the CWA's jurisdiction on a case-by-case basis. Within a few years, the agencies had “interpreted their jurisdiction over `the wa- ters of the United States' to cover -to- million acres” of wetlands and “virtually any parcel of land containing a channel or conduit . . . through which rainwater or drainage may occasionally or intermittently fow.” Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). Against that backdrop, the Court in Rapanos vacated a lower court decision that had held that the CWA covered wetlands near ditches and drains that emptied into navigable waters several miles away. As to the rationale for vacating, however, no position in Rapanos commanded a majority of the Court. Four Justices concluded that the CWA's cover- age was limited to certain relatively permanent bodies of water con- nected to traditional interstate navigable waters and to wetlands that are “as a practical matter indistinguishable” from those waters. Id., at (emphasis deleted). Justice Kennedy, concurring only in the judg- ment, wrote that CWA jurisdiction over adjacent wetlands requires a “signifcant nexus” between the wetland and its adjacent navigable wa- ters, which exists when “the wetlands, either alone or in combination with similarly situated lands in the region, signifcantly affect the chemi- cal, physical, and biological integrity” of those waters. Id., at –. Following Rapanos, feld agents brought nearly all waters and wetlands under the risk of CWA jurisdiction by engaging in fact-intensive Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus “signifcant-nexus” determinations that turned on a lengthy list of hy- drological and ecological factors. Under the agencies' current rule, traditional navigable waters, inter- state waters, and the territorial seas, as well as their tributaries and adjacent wetlands, are waters of the United States. See Fed. Reg. . So too are any “[i]ntrastate lakes and ponds, streams, or wet- lands” that either have a continuous surface connection to categorically included waters or have a signifcant nexus to interstate or traditional navigable waters. Id., at , . Finding a signifcant nexus con- tinues to require consideration of a list of open-ended factors. Ibid. Finally, the current rule returns to the agencies' longstanding defnition of “adjacent.” Ibid. Pp. –. () Landowners who even negligently discharge pollutants into navigable waters without a permit potentially face severe criminal and civil penalties under the Act. As things currently stand, the agencies maintain that the signifcant-nexus test is suffcient to establish jurisdic- tion over “adjacent” wetlands. By the EPA's own admission, nearly all waters and wetlands are potentially susceptible to regulation under this test, putting a staggering array of landowners at risk of criminal prose- cution for such mundane activities as moving dirt. Pp. –. (b) Next, the Court considers the extent of the CWA's geographical reach. Pp. –. () To make sense of Congress's choice to defne “navigable waters” as “the waters of the United States,” the Court concludes that the CWA's use of “waters” encompasses “only those relatively permanent, standing or continuously fowing bodies of water `forming geographic[al] features' that are described in ordinary parlance as `streams, oceans, rivers, and lakes.' ” Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). This reading follows from the CWA's deliberate use of the plural “wa- ters,” which refers to those bodies of water listed above, and also helps to align the meaning of “the waters of the United States” with the de- fned term “navigable waters.” More broadly, this reading accords with how Congress has employed the term “waters” elsewhere in the CWA— see, e. g., U. S. C. §§ (i)()(D), (a)()(I)—and in other laws— see, e. g., U. S. C. §§ , (a)(). This Court has understood CWA's use of “waters” in the same way. See, e. g., Riverside Bayview, U. S., at ; SWANCC, U. S., at –, . The EPA's insistence that “water” is “naturally read to encompass wetlands” because the “presence of water is `universally regarded as the most basic feature of wetlands' ” proves too much. Brief for Respond- ents . It is also tough to square with SWANCC's exclusion of isolated ponds or Riverside Bayview's extensive focus on the adjacency of wet- lands to covered waters. Finally, it is diffcult to see how the States' Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Syllabus “responsibilities and rights” in regulating water resources would re- main primary” if the EPA had such broad jurisdiction. § (b). Pp. –. () Statutory context shows that some wetlands nevertheless qual- ify as “waters of the United States.” Specifcally, §(g)(), which authorizes States to conduct certain permitting programs, specifes that discharges may be permitted into any waters of the United States, except for traditional navigable waters, “including wetlands adjacent thereto,” suggesting that at least some wetlands must qualify as “waters of the United States.” But § (g)() cannot defne what wetlands the CWA regulates because it is not the operative provision that defnes the Act's reach. Instead, the reference to adjacent wetlands in § (g)() must be harmonized with “the waters of the United States,” which is the operative term that defnes the CWA's reach. Because the “adjacent” wetlands in § (g)() are “includ[ed]” within “waters of the United States,” these wetlands must qualify as “waters of the United States” in their own right, i. e., be indistinguishably part of a body of water that itself constitutes “waters” under the CWA. To hold otherwise would require implausibly concluding that Congress tucked an important expansion to the reach of the CWA into convoluted lan- guage in a relatively obscure provision concerning state permitting pro- grams. Understanding the CWA to apply to wetlands that are distin- guishable from otherwise covered “waters of the United States” would substantially broaden § () to defne “navigable waters” as “waters of the United States and adjacent wetlands.” But § (g)()'s use of the term “including” makes clear that it does not purport to do any such thing. It merely refects Congress's assumption that certain “adjacent” wetlands are part of the “waters of the United States.” To determine when a wetland is part of adjacent “waters of the United States,” the Court agrees with the Rapanos plurality that the use of “waters” in § () may be fairly read to include only wetlands that are “indistinguishable from waters of the United States.” This occurs only when wetlands have “a continuous surface connection to bodies that are `waters of the United States' in their own right, so that there is no clear demarcation between `waters' and wetlands.” U. S., at . In sum, the CWA extends to only wetlands that are “as a practical matter indistinguishable from waters of the United States.” This re- quires the party asserting jurisdiction to establish “frst, that the adja- cent [body of water constitutes] . . . `water[s] of the United States' (i. e., a relatively permanent body of water connected to traditional interstate navigable waters); and second, that the wetland has a continuous surface connection with that water, making it diffcult to determine where the `water' ends and the `wetland' begins.” Id., at , . Pp. –. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus (c) The EPA asks the Court to defer to its most recent rule providing that “adjacent wetlands are covered by the [CWA] if they `possess a signifcant nexus to' traditional navigable waters” and that wetlands are “adjacent” when they are “neighboring” to covered waters. Brief for Respondents , . For multiple reasons, the EPA's position lacks merit. Pp. –. () The EPA's interpretation is inconsistent with the CWA's text and structure and clashes with “background principles of construction” that apply to the interpretation of the relevant provisions. Bond v. United States, U. S. , . First, “exceedingly clear language” is required if Congress wishes to alter the federal/state balance or the Government's power over private property. United States Forest Serv- ice v. Cowpasture River Preservation Assn., U. S. –––, –––. The Court has thus required a clear statement from Congress when deter- mining the scope of “the waters of the United States.” Second, the EPA's interpretation gives rise to serious vagueness concerns in light of the CWA's criminal penalties, thus implicating the due process re- quirement that penal statutes be defned “ `with suffcient defniteness that ordinary people can understand what conduct is prohibited.' ” Mc- Donnell v. United States, U. S. , . Where penal statutes could sweep broadly enough to render criminal a host of what might otherwise be considered ordinary activities, the Court has been wary about going beyond what “Congress certainly intended the statute to cover.” Skilling v. United States, U. S. , . Under these two principles, the judicial task when interpreting “the waters of the United States” is to ascertain whether clear congressional authorization exists for the EPA's claimed power. Pp. –. () The EPA claims that Congress ratifed the EPA's regulatory defnition of “adjacent” when it amended the CWA to include the refer- ence to “adjacent” wetlands in § (g)(). This argument fails for at least three reasons. First, the text of §§ () and (g) shows that “adjacent” cannot include wetlands that are merely nearby covered wa- ters. Second, EPA's argument cannot be reconciled with this Court's repeated recognition that § (g)() “ `does not conclusively determine the construction to be placed on . . . the relevant defnition of “navigable waters.” ' ” SWANCC, U. S., at . Third, the EPA falls short of establishing the sort of “overwhelming evidence of acquiescence” neces- sary to support its argument in the face of Congress's failure to amend § (). Id., at , n. . Finally, the EPA's various policy arguments about the ecological consequences of a narrower defnition of “adjacent” are rejected. Pp. –. F. th , reversed and remanded. Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Syllabus Alito, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Thomas, Gorsuch, and Barrett, JJ., joined. Thomas, J., fled a concurring opinion, in which Gorsuch, J., joined, post, p. . Kagan, J., fled an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Sotomayor and Jackson, JJ., joined, post, p. . Kavanaugh, J., fled an opinion concur- ring in the judgment, in which Sotomayor, Kagan, and Jackson, JJ., joined, post, p. . Damien M. Schiff argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs was Anthony L. François. Acting Solicitor General Fletcher argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief were Assistant Attor- ney General Kim, Deputy Solicitor General Stewart, Mat- thew Guarnieri, Jennifer Scheller Neumann, Brian C. Toth, Susannah Landes Weaver, Steven Neugeboren, Karyn I. O. Wendelowski, Carrie Ricci, and Zaheer Tajani.* *Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for the State of Alaska by Treg R. Taylor, Attorney General of Alaska, and David A. Wil- kinson and Julie Pack, Assistant Attorneys General; for the State of West Virginia et al. by Patrick Morrisey, Attorney General of West Virginia, Lindsay S. See, Solicitor General, and Michael R. Williams, Senior Dep- uty Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Steve Marshall of Alabama, Mark Brnovich of Arizona, Leslie Rutledge of Arkansas, Ashley Moody of Florida, Christopher M. Carr of Georgia, Lawrence Wasden of Idaho, Theodore E. Rokita of Indi- ana, Derek Schmidt of Kansas, Daniel Cameron of Kentucky, Jeff Landry of Louisiana, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi, Eric S. Schmitt of Missouri, Aus- tin Knudsen of Montana, Douglas J. Peterson of Nebraska, Drew Wrigley of North Dakota, John Formella of New Hampshire, Dave Yost of Ohio, John O'Connor of Oklahoma, Alan Wilson of South Carolina, Jason Ravnsborg of South Dakota, Herbert Slatery of Tennessee, Ken Paxton of Texas, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Jason Miyares of Virginia, and Bridget Hill of Wyoming; for the American Exploration and Mining Association et al. by Christopher D. Thomas and Andrea J. Driggs; for the American Petroleum Institute et al. by Catherine E. Stetson, Sean Marotta, and Meredith B. Cody; for the Americans for Prosperity Foundation by Mi- chael Pepson and Cynthia Fleming Crawford; for the Associated Indus- tries of Florida et al. by Terry P. Cole; for the Association of American Railroads by Fred R. Wagner and Jay C. Johnson; for the Cato Institute et al. by Jay R. Schweikert, Karen Harned, Cory L. Andrews, and John Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court. This case concerns a nagging question about the outer reaches of the Clean Water Act (CWA), the principal federal M. Masslon II; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America by Elbert Lin, Kerry L. McGrath, Erica N. Peterson, and An- drew R. Varcoe; for Congressional Western Caucus Members by Tyler R. Green; for Duarte Nursery, Inc., by Timothy Kassouni; for Farm Bureau of Arkansas et al. by Michael B. Kimberly, Kari E. Fisher, Chad Endsley, Leah Curtis, Amy Milam, and Christina L. Gruenhagen; for Forestry Organizations by David Y. Chung, Elizabeth B. Dawson, and William R. Murray; for Fourteen National Agricultural Organizations by Timothy S. Bishop, Brett E. Legner, Ellen Steen, Travis Cushman, and Michael C. Formica; for Freeport-McMoRan Inc. by Jeremy C. Marwell and James T. Dawson; for the Liberty Justice Center by Daniel R. Suhr; for the National Stone, Sand and Gravel Association et al. by Lawrence R. Liebes- man and Nick Goldstein; for the Savannah Economic Development Au- thority et al. by Misha Tseytlin, Anna Wildeman, and Byron Kirkpat- rick; for the Southeastern Legal Foundation by Jennifer A. Simon and Kimberly S. Hermann; and for Sen. Shelley Moore Capito et al. by Thomas M. Johnson, Jr. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of Colorado by Philip J. Weiser, Attorney General of Colorado, Eric R. Olson, Solicitor General, Carrie Noteboom, First Assistant Attorney Gen- eral, and Annette M. Quill and Jennifer Hunt, Senior Assistant Attorneys General; for the State of New York et al. by Letitia James, Attorney General of New York, Barbara D. Underwood, Solicitor General, Judith N. Vale, Deputy Solicitor General, and Mark S. Grube, Assistant Solicitor General, by Matthew J. Platkin, Acting Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Rob Bonta of California, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of Delaware, Karl A. Racine of the District of Columbia, Holly T. Shikada of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Maura Healey of Massachusetts, Keith Ellison of Min- nesota, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Joshua H. Stein of North Caro- lina, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Thomas J. Donovan, Jr., of Vermont, Robert W. Ferguson of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for the American Sustainable Business Network et al. by Benjamin D. Bat- tles, Max E. Rodriguez, and Alison Borochoff-Porte; for the Constitutional Accountability Center by Elizabeth B. Wydra and Brianne J. Gorod; for Environmental and Community Organizations by Nicholas S. Torrey, Catherine M. Rahm, and Ian Fein; for Former EPA Administrators by Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court law regulating water pollution in the United States. By all accounts, the Act has been a great success. Before its enactment in , many of the Nation's rivers, lakes, and streams were severely polluted, and existing federal legisla- tion had proved to be inadequate. Today, many formerly fetid bodies of water are safe for the use and enjoyment of the people of this country. There is, however, an unfortunate footnote to this success story: the outer boundaries of the Act's geographical reach have been uncertain from the start. The Act applies to “the waters of the United States,” but what does that phrase mean? Does the term encompass any backyard that is soggy enough for some minimum period of time? Does it reach “mudfats, sandfats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie pot- Beth S. Brinkmann, Gary S. Guzy, and Eric Chung; for the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin et al. by Janette K. Brimmer and Jill E. Grant; for Outdoor Recreation and Conservation Organizations by Jennifer S. Windom; for Public Citizen by Scott L. Nelson and Allison M. Zieve; for the Waterkeeper Alliance et al. by Anna-Rose Mathieson, Kelly Hunter Foster, and Eric J. Buescher; for Water Resource Management Organiza- tions by Caitlin J. Halligan; and for U. S. Members of Congress by Sara A. Colangelo. Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the Atlantic Legal Foundation et al. by Lawrence S. Ebner and Nancie G. Marzulla; for the Claremont Insti- tute's Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence by John C. Eastman and Anthony T. Caso; for the Idaho Conservation League by Caleb Jaffe; for the National Association of Clean Water Agencies by Alexandra Dapolito Dunn, Thomas C. Jackson, and Stephanie F. Cagniart; for the National Association of Counties et al. by Roderick E. Walston, J. G. Andre Mo- nette, and Lisa Soronen; for the National Association of Home Builders of the United States by Thomas J. Ward and Jeffrey B. Augello; for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association et al. by Scott Yager; for the Prop- erty and Environment Research Center by Jonathan Wood; for Scientifc Societies by Royal C. Gardner, Stephanie Tai, Henry Weisburg, Kathleen E. Gardner, and Erin Okuno; for the Western Urban Water Coalition by Meredith Weinberg; and for the Wyoming Stock Growers Association et al. by Karen Budd-Falen. Stat. , as amended, U. S. C. § et seq. Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court holes, wet meadows, [or] playa lakes”? How about ditches, swimming pools, and puddles? For more than a half century, the agencies responsible for enforcing the Act have wrestled with the problem and adopted varying interpretations. On three prior occasions, this Court has tried to clarify the meaning of “the waters of the United States.” But the problem persists. When we last addressed the question years ago, we were unable to agree on an opinion of the Court. Today, we return to the problem and attempt to identify with greater clarity what the Act means by “the waters of the United States.” I A For most of this Nation's history, the regulation of water pollution was left almost entirely to the States and their sub- divisions. The common law permitted aggrieved parties to bring nuisance suits against polluters. But as industrial production and population growth increased the quantity and toxicity of pollution, States gradually shifted to enforcement by regulatory agencies. Conversely, federal regulation was largely limited to ensuring that “traditional navigable wa- ters”—that is, interstate waters that were either navigable in fact and used in commerce or readily susceptible of being used in this way—remained free of impediments. See, e. g., Rivers and Harbors Act of , Stat. ; see also United States v. Appalachian Elec. Power Co., U. S. , – (); The Daniel Ball, Wall. , (). CFR § .(s)() (). See Rapanos v. United States, U. S. (). Neither party contends that any opinion in Rapanos controls. We agree. See Nichols v. United States, U. S. , – (). See N. Hines, Nor Any Drop To Drink: Public Regulation of Water Quality, Iowa L. Rev. , – (). Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court Congress's early efforts at directly regulating water pol- lution were tepid. Although the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of allowed federal offcials to seek judicial abatement of pollution in interstate waters, it imposed high hurdles, such as requiring the consent of the State where the pollution originated. See Stat. –. Despite repeated amendments over the next two decades, few ac- tions were brought under this framework. Congress eventually replaced this scheme in with the CWA. See Stat. . The Act prohibits “the discharge of any pollutant” into “navigable waters.” U. S. C. §§ (a), ()(A). It broadly defnes the term “ `pol- lutant' ” to include not only contaminants like “chemical wastes,” but also more mundane materials like “rock, sand,” and “cellar dirt.” § (). The CWA is a potent weapon. It imposes what have been described as “crushing” consequences “even for inadvertent violations.” Army Corps of Engineers v. Hawkes Co., U. S. , () (Kennedy, J., concurring). Property owners who negligently discharge “pollutants” into covered waters may face severe criminal penalties including impris- onment. § (c). These penalties increase for knowing violations. Ibid. On the civil side, the CWA imposes over $, in fnes per day for each violation. See Note follow- ing U. S. C. § ; U. S. C. § (d); Fed. Reg. () (to be codifed in CFR § .). And due to the Act's -year statute of limitations, U. S. C. § , and expansive interpretations of the term “violation,” these civil penalties can be nearly as crushing as their criminal counterparts, see, e. g., Borden Ranch Partnership v. United States Army Corps of Engineers, F. d , , (CA ) (up- holding Agency decision to count each of passes of a plow See Hearings on Activities of the Federal Water Pollution Control Ad- ministration before the Subcommittee on Air and Water Pollution of the Senate Committee on Public Works, th Cong., st Sess., () (re- porting only one abatement suit between and ). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court by a farmer through “jurisdictional” soil on his farm as a separate violation), aff 'd by an equally divided Court, U. S. () (per curiam). The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) jointly enforce the CWA. The EPA is tasked with policing violations after the fact, either by issuing orders demanding compliance or by bringing civil actions. § (a). The Act also authorizes private plaintiffs to sue to enforce its requirements. § (a). On the front end, both agencies are empowered to issue permits exempting activity that would otherwise be unlawful under the Act. Relevant here, the Corps con- trols permits for the discharge of dredged or fll material into covered waters. See § (a). The costs of obtaining such a permit are “signifcant,” and both agencies have ad- mitted that “the permitting process can be arduous, expen- sive, and long.” Hawkes Co., U. S., at –, . Success is also far from guaranteed, as the Corps has as- serted discretion to grant or deny permits based on a long, nonexclusive list of factors that ends with a catchall mandate to consider “in general, the needs and welfare of the people.” CFR § .(a)() (). Due to the CWA's capacious defnition of “pollutant,” its low mens rea, and its severe penalties, regulated parties have focused particular attention on the Act's geographic scope. While its predecessor encompassed “interstate or navigable waters,” U. S. C. § (a) ( ed.), the CWA prohibits the discharge of pollutants into only “navigable wa- ters,” which it defnes as “the waters of the United States, including the territorial seas,” U. S. C. §§ (a), (), ()(A) ( ed.). The meaning of this defnition is the persistent problem that we must address. B Michael and Chantell Sackett have spent well over a dec- ade navigating the CWA, and their voyage has been bumpy Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court and costly. In , they purchased a small lot near Priest Lake, in Bonner County, Idaho. In preparation for building a modest home, they began backflling their property with dirt and rocks. A few months later, the EPA sent the Sack- etts a compliance order informing them that their backflling violated the CWA because their property contained pro- tected wetlands. The EPA demanded that the Sacketts immediately “ `undertake activities to restore the Site' ” pur- suant to a “ `Restoration Work Plan' ” that it provided. Sackett v. EPA, U. S. , (). The order threat- ened the Sacketts with penalties of over $, per day if they did not comply. At the time, the EPA interpreted “the waters of the United States” to include “[a]ll . . . waters” that “could affect interstate or foreign commerce,” as well as “[w]etlands ad- jacent” to those waters. CFR §§ .(s)(), () (). “[A]djacent” was defned to mean not just “bordering” or “contiguous,” but also “neighboring.” § .(b). Agency guidance instructed offcials to assert jurisdiction over wet- lands “adjacent” to non-navigable tributaries when those wetlands had “a signifcant nexus to a traditional navigable water.” A “signifcant nexus” was said to exist when “ `wetlands, either alone or in combination with similarly sit- uated lands in the region, signifcantly affect the chemical, physical, and biological integrity' ” of those waters. Guidance (emphasis added). In looking for evidence of a “signifcant nexus,” feld agents were told to consider a wide range of open-ended hydrological and ecological factors. See id., at . According to the EPA, the “wetlands” on the Sacketts' lot are “adjacent to” (in the sense that they are in the same neighborhood as) what it described as an “unnamed tribu- tary” on the other side of a -foot road. App. . That EPA & Corps, Clean Water Act Jurisdiction Following the U. S. Su- preme Court's Decision in Rapanos v. United States & Carabell v. United States – () ( Guidance). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court tributary feeds into a non-navigable creek, which, in turn, feeds into Priest Lake, an intrastate body of water that the EPA designated as traditionally navigable. To establish a signifcant nexus, the EPA lumped the Sacketts' lot together with the Kalispell Bay Fen, a large nearby wetland complex that the Agency regarded as “similarly situated.” Accord- ing to the EPA, these properties, taken together, “signif- cantly affect” the ecology of Priest Lake. Therefore, the EPA concluded, the Sacketts had illegally dumped soil and gravel onto “the waters of the United States.” The Sacketts fled suit under the Administrative Proce- dure Act, U. S. C. § et seq., alleging that the EPA lacked jurisdiction because any wetlands on their property were not “waters of the United States.” The District Court initially dismissed the suit, reasoning that the compliance order was not a fnal agency action, but this Court ultimately held that the Sacketts could bring their suit under the APA. See Sackett, U. S., at . After seven years of additional proceedings on remand, the District Court entered sum- mary judgment for the EPA. WL (D Idaho, Mar. , ). The Ninth Circuit affrmed, holding that the CWA covers adjacent wetlands with a signifcant nexus to traditional navigable waters and that the Sacketts' lot satis- fed that standard. F. th , – (). We granted certiorari to decide the proper test for deter- mining whether wetlands are “waters of the United States.” U. S. ––– (). II A In defning the meaning of “the waters of the United States,” we revisit what has been “a contentious and diffcult task.” National Assn. of Mfrs. v. Department of Defense, U. S. , – (). The phrase has sparked dec- ades of agency action and litigation. In order to resolve the CWA's applicability to wetlands, we begin by reviewing this history. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court The EPA and the Corps initially promulgated different in- terpretations of “the waters of the United States.” The EPA defned its jurisdiction broadly to include, for example, intrastate lakes used by interstate travelers. Fed. Reg. (). Conversely, the Corps, consistent with its historical authority to regulate obstructions to navigation, asserted jurisdiction over only traditional navigable waters. Fed. Reg. (). But the Corps' narrow defnition did not last. It soon promulgated new, much broader def- nitions designed to reach the outer limits of Congress's com- merce power. See Fed. Reg. , and n. (); Fed. Reg. – (). Eventually the EPA and Corps settled on materially iden- tical defnitions. See Fed. Reg. (); Fed. Reg. – (). These broad defnitions encompassed “[a]ll . . . waters” that “could affect interstate or foreign com- merce.” CFR § .(s)() (). So long as the poten- tial for an interstate effect was present, the regulation ex- tended the CWA to, for example, “intrastate lakes, rivers, streams (including intermittent streams), mudfats, sandfats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes, or natural ponds.” Ibid. The agencies likewise took an expansive view of the CWA's coverage of wetlands “adja- cent” to covered waters. § .(s)(). As noted, they de- fned “adjacent” to mean “bordering, contiguous, or neigh- boring” and clarifed that “adjacent” wetlands include those that are separated from covered waters “by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes, and the like.” § .(b). They also specifed that “wetlands” is a technical term encompassing “those areas that are inundated or satu- rated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration suffcient to support, and that under normal conditions do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.” § .(t). The Corps released what would become a -page manual to guide of- Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court fcers when they determine whether property meets this defnition. This Court frst construed the meaning of “the waters of the United States” in United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. (). There, we were con- fronted with the Corps' assertion of authority under the CWA over wetlands that “actually abut[ted] on a navigable waterway.” Id., at . Although we expressed concern that wetlands seemed to fall outside “traditional notions of `waters,' ” we nonetheless deferred to the Corps, reason- ing that “the transition from water to solid ground is not- necessarily or even typically an abrupt one.” Id., at –. The agencies responded to Riverside Bayview by expand- ing their interpretations even further. Most notably, they issued the “migratory bird rule,” which extended jurisdiction to any waters or wetlands that “are or would be used as [a] habitat” by migratory birds or endangered species. See Fed. Reg. (); Fed. Reg. (). As the Corps would later admit, “nearly all waters were jurisdic- tional under the migratory bird rule.” In Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers, U. S. () (SWANCC), this Court rejected the migratory bird rule, which the Corps had used to assert jurisdiction over several isolated ponds lo- cated wholly within the State of Illinois. Disagreeing with the Corps' argument that ecological interests supported its jurisdiction, we instead held that the CWA does not “ex- See Corps, Wetlands Delineation Manual (Tech. Rep. Y––, ) (Wetlands Delineation Manual); see also, e. g., Corps, Regional Supplement to the Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Alaska Region (Version .) (ERDC/EL Tr––, ). GAO, Waters and Wetlands: Corps of Engineers Needs To Evaluate Its District Offce Practices in Determining Jurisdiction (GAO––, ) (GAO Report). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court ten[d] to ponds that are not adjacent to open water.” Id., at (emphasis deleted). Days after our decision, the agencies issued guidance that sought to minimize SWANCC's impact. They took the view that this Court's holding was “strictly limited to waters that are `nonnavigable, isolated, and intrastate' ” and that “feld staff should continue to exercise CWA jurisdiction to the full extent of their authority” for “any waters that fall outside of that category.” The agencies never defned exactly what they regarded as the “full extent of their authority.” They instead encouraged local feld agents to make decisions on a case-by-case basis. What emerged was a system of “vague” rules that de- pended on “locally developed practices.” GAO Report . Deferring to the agencies' localized decisions, lower courts blessed an array of expansive interpretations of the CWA's reach. See, e. g., United States v. Deaton, F. d , (CA ) (holding that a property owner violated the CWA by piling soil near a ditch miles from navigable waters). Within a few years, the agencies had “interpreted their juris- diction over `the waters of the United States' to cover - to- million acres” of wetlands and “virtually any parcel of land containing a channel or conduit . . . through which rain- water or drainage may occasionally or intermittently fow.” Rapanos v. United States, U. S. , () (plural- ity opinion). It was against this backdrop that we granted review in Rapanos v. United States. The lower court in the principal case before us had held that the CWA covered wetlands near ditches and drains that eventually emptied into navigable waters at least miles away, a theory that had supported the petitioner's conviction in a related prosecution. Id., at , . Although we vacated that decision, no position commanded a majority of the Court. Four Justices con- EPA & Corps, Memorandum, Supreme Court Ruling Concerning CWA Jurisdiction Over Isolated Waters () (alteration omitted). Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court cluded that the CWA's coverage did not extend beyond two categories: first, certain relatively permanent bodies of water connected to traditional interstate navigable waters and, second, wetlands with such a close physical connection to those waters that they were “as a practical matter indis- tinguishable from waters of the United States.” Id., at , (emphasis deleted). Four Justices would have deferred to the Government's determination that the wetlands at issue were covered under the CWA. Id., at (Stevens, J., dissenting). Finally, one Justice concluded that jurisdiction under the CWA requires a “signifcant nexus” between wet- lands and navigable waters and that such a nexus exists where “the wetlands, either alone or in combination with similarly situated lands in the region, signifcantly affect the chemical, physical, and biological integrity” of those waters. Id., at – (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment). In the decade following Rapanos, the EPA and the Corps issued guidance documents that “recognized larger grey areas and called for more fact-intensive individualized deter- minations in those grey areas.” As discussed, they in- structed agency offcials to assert jurisdiction over wetlands “adjacent” to non-navigable tributaries based on fact-specifc determinations regarding the presence of a signifcant nexus. Guidance . The guidance further advised offcials to make this determination by considering a lengthy list of hy- drological and ecological factors. Ibid. Echoing what they had said about the migratory bird rule, the agencies later admitted that “almost all waters and wetlands across the country theoretically could be subject to a case-specifc juris- dictional determination” under this guidance. Fed. Reg. (); see, e. g., Hawkes Co., U. S., at (explain- N. Parrillo, Federal Agency Guidance and the Power To Bind: An Em- pirical Study of Agencies and Industries, Yale J. on Reg. , (); see Guidance –; EPA & Corps, Clean Water Act Jurisdiction Fol- lowing the U. S. Supreme Court's Decision in Rapanos v. United States & Carabell v. United States – () ( Guidance). Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court ing that the Corps found a signifcant nexus between wet- lands and a river “some miles away”). More recently, the agencies have engaged in a furry of rulemaking defning “the waters of the United States.” In a rule, they offered a muscular approach that would subject “the vast majority of the nation's water features” to a case-by-case jurisdictional analysis. Although the rule listed a few examples of “waters” that were excluded from regulation like “[p]uddles” and “swimming pools,” it categor- ically covered other waters and wetlands, including any within , feet of interstate or traditional navigable wa- ters. Fed. Reg. –. And it subjected a wider range of other waters, including any within , feet of indi- rect tributaries of interstate or traditional navigable waters, to a case-specifc determination for signifcant nexus. Ibid. The agencies repealed this sweeping rule in . Fed. Reg. . Shortly afterwards, they replaced it with a nar- rower defnition that limited jurisdiction to traditional navi- gable waters and their tributaries, lakes, and “adjacent” wet- lands. Fed. Reg. (). They also narrowed the defnition of “[a]djacent,” limiting it to wetlands that “[a]but” covered waters, are fooded by those waters, or are sepa- rated from those waters by features like berms or barriers. Ibid. This rule too did not last. After granting the EPA's voluntary motion to remand, a District Court vacated the rule. See Pascua Yaqui Tribe v. EPA, F. Supp. d , (D Ariz. ). The agencies recently promulgated yet another rule at- tempting to defne waters of the United States. Fed. Reg. () (to be codifed in CFR § .). Under that broader rule, traditional navigable waters, interstate waters, and the territorial seas, as well as their tributaries and adjacent wetlands, are waters of the United States. Fed. Reg. . So are any “[i]ntrastate lakes and ponds, EPA & Dept. of the Army, Economic Analysis of the EPA-Army Clean Water Rule (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court streams, or wetlands” that either have a continuous surface connection to categorically included waters or have a sig- nifcant nexus to interstate or traditional navigable waters. Id., at , . Like the post-Rapanos guidance, the rule states that a signifcant nexus requires consideration of a list of open-ended factors. Fed. Reg. , . Finally, the rule returns to the broad pre- defnition of “adja- cent.” Ibid.; see supra, at . Acknowledging that “[f]ield work is often necessary to confrm the presence of a wetland” under these defnitions, the rule instructs local agents to continue using the Corps' Wetlands Delineation Manual. Fed. Reg. . B With the beneft of a half century of practice under the CWA, it is worth taking stock of where things stand. The agencies maintain that the signifcant-nexus test has been and remains suffcient to establish jurisdiction over “adja- cent” wetlands. And by the EPA's own admission, “almost all waters and wetlands” are potentially susceptible to regu- lation under that test. Fed. Reg. . This puts many property owners in a precarious position because it is “often diffcult to determine whether a particular piece of property contains waters of the United States.” Hawkes Co., U. S., at ; see CFR § .(t) (). Even if a prop- erty appears dry, application of the guidance in a complicated manual ultimately decides whether it contains wetlands. See Fed. Reg. ; Wetlands Delineation Manual – (describing “not . . . atypical” examples of wetlands that peri- odically lack wetlands indicators); see also Hawkes Co. v. United States Army Corps of Engineers, F. d , (CA ) (Kelly, J., concurring) (“This is a unique aspect of the CWA; most laws do not require the hiring of ex- pert consultants to determine if they even apply to you or your property”). And because the CWA can sweep broadly enough to criminalize mundane activities like moving dirt, this unchecked definition of “the waters of the United Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court States” means that a staggering array of landowners are at risk of criminal prosecution or onerous civil penalties. What are landowners to do if they want to build on their property? The EPA recommends asking the Corps for a ju- risdictional determination, which is a written decision on whether a particular site contains covered waters. Tr. of Oral Arg. ; see Corps, Regulatory Guidance Letter No. – , at () (RGL –); CFR §§ .(a)(), .. But the Corps maintains that it has no obligation to provide jurisdictional determinations, RGL –, at , and it has already begun announcing exceptions to the legal effect of some previous determinations, see Fed. Reg. . Even if the Corps is willing to provide a jurisdictional determina- tion, a property owner may fnd it necessary to retain an expensive expert consultant who is capable of putting to- gether a presentation that stands a chance of persuading the Corps. And even then, a landowner's chances of success are low, as the EPA admits that the Corps fnds jurisdiction approximately % of the time. Tr. of Oral Arg. . If the landowner is among the vast majority who receive adverse jurisdictional determinations, what then? It would be foolish to go ahead and build since the jurisdictional deter- mination might form evidence of culpability in a prosecution or civil action. The jurisdictional determination could be challenged in court, but only after the delay and expense required to exhaust the administrative appeals process. See CFR § .(d). And once in court, the landowner would face an uphill battle under the deferential standards of re- view that the agencies enjoy. See U. S. C. § . Another alternative would be simply to acquiesce and seek a permit See Fed. Reg. ; Corps, Questions and Answers for Rapanos and Carabell Decision (); J. Finkle, Jurisdictional Determinations: An Important Battlefeld in the Clean Water Act Fight, Ecology L. Q. , – (); K. Gould, Drowning in Wetlands Jurisdictional Deter- mination Process: Implementation of Rapanos v. United States, U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. , (). Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court from the Corps. But that process can take years and cost an exorbitant amount of money. Many landowners faced with this unappetizing menu of options would simply choose to build nothing. III With this history in mind, we now consider the extent of the CWA's geographical reach. A We start, as we always do, with the text of the CWA. Bartenwerfer v. Buckley, U. S. , (). As noted, the Act applies to “navigable waters,” which had a well- established meaning at the time of the CWA's enactment. But the CWA complicates matters by proceeding to defne “navigable waters” as “the waters of the United States,” § (), which was decidedly not a well-known term of art. This frustrating drafting choice has led to decades of litigation, but we must try to make sense of the terms Con- gress chose to adopt. And for the reasons explained below, we conclude that the Rapanos plurality was correct: the CWA's use of “waters” encompasses “only those relatively permanent, standing or continuously fowing bodies of water `forming geographic[al] features' that are described in or- dinary parlance as `streams, oceans, rivers, and lakes.' ” U. S., at (quoting Webster's New International Diction- ary (d ed. ) (Webster's Second); original alter- ations omitted). This reading follows from the CWA's deliberate use of the plural term “waters.” See U. S., at –. That term typically refers to bodies of water like those listed above. See, e. g., Webster's Second ; Black's Law Dic- tionary (th ed. ) (“especially in the plural, [water] may designate a body of water, such as a river, a lake, or an ocean, or an aggregate of such bodies of water, as in the phrases `foreign waters,' `waters of the United States,' and the like” (emphasis added)); Random House Dictionary of the Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court English Language (d ed. ) (Random House Dic- tionary) (defning “waters” as “a. fowing water, or water moving in waves: The river's mighty waters. b. the sea or seas bordering a particular country or continent or located in a particular part of the world” (emphasis deleted)). This meaning is hard to reconcile with classifying “ ` “lands,” wet or otherwise, as “waters.” ' ” Rapanos, U. S., at (plu- rality opinion) (quoting Riverside Bayview, U. S., at ). This reading also helps to align the meaning of “the waters of the United States” with the term it is defning: “navigable waters.” See Bond v. United States, U. S. , () (“In settling on a fair reading of a statute, it is not unusual to consider the ordinary meaning of a defned term, particularly when there is dissonance between that ordinary meaning and the reach of the defnition”). Although we have acknowledged that the CWA extends to more than tra- ditional navigable waters, we have refused to read “naviga- ble” out of the statute, holding that it at least shows that Congress was focused on “its traditional jurisdiction over waters that were or had been navigable in fact or which could reasonably be so made.” SWANCC, U. S., at ; see also Appalachian Elec., U. S., at –; The Dan- iel Ball, Wall., at . At a minimum, then, the use of “navigable” signals that the defnition principally refers to bodies of navigable water like rivers, lakes, and oceans. See Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). More broadly, this reading accords with how Congress has employed the term “waters” elsewhere in the CWA and in other laws. The CWA repeatedly uses “waters” in contexts that confrm the term refers to bodies of open water. See U. S. C. §(i)()(D) (“the waters of the Chesapeake Bay”); §(a)()(I) (“the open waters of each of the Great Lakes”); § (d)()(B)(ii) (“lakes and other surface wa- ters”); § (g)()(C)(vii) (“estuarine waters”); § (c)() (“the waters of the territorial seas, the contiguous zone, and the oceans”); §§ (a)(), a(a) (“coastal recreation wa- ters”); § (state “boundary waters”). The use of “wa- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court ters” elsewhere in the U. S. Code likewise correlates to riv- ers, lakes, and oceans. Statutory history points in the same direction. The CWA's predecessor statute covered “interstate or navigable waters” and defned “interstate waters” as “all rivers, lakes, and other waters that fow across or form a part of State boundaries.” U. S. C. §§ (a), (e) ( ed.) (em- phasis added); see also Rivers and Harbors Appropriations Act of , Stat. (codifed, as amended, at U. S. C. § ) (prohibiting unauthorized obstructions “to the naviga- ble capacity of any of the waters of the United States”). This Court has understood the CWA's use of “waters” in the same way. Even as Riverside Bayview grappled with whether adjacent wetlands could fall within the CWA's coverage, it acknowledged that wetlands are not included in “traditional notions of `waters.' ” U. S., at . It explained that the term conventionally refers to “hydro- graphic features” like “rivers” and “streams.” Id., at . SWANCC went even further, repeatedly describing the “wa- ters” covered by the Act as “open water” and suggesting that “the waters of the United States” principally refers to traditional navigable waters. U. S., at –, . That our CWA decisions operated under this assumption is unsurprising. Ever since Gibbons v. Ogden, Wheat. (), this Court has used “waters of the United States” to refer to similar bodies of water, almost always in relation to ships. Id., at (discussing a vessel's “conduct in the wa- ters of the United States”). See, e. g., U. S. C. § (“the waters of the seacoast . . . the waters of the lakes”); § (a)() (“waters of the Chesapeake Bay”); U. S. C. § (“the waters of the Mississippi River and its tributaries”); U. S. C. §h–(a) (“the waters of Lake Cheraw, Colorado . . . the waters of the Arkansas River”); U. S. C. § (allowing the Coast Guard to take control of particular vessels during an emergency in order to “prevent damage or injury to any harbor or waters of the United States”). See, e. g., United States v. Alvarez-Machain, U. S. , , n. () (discussing a treaty “to allow British passenger ships to carry liquor while in the waters of the United States”); Kent v. Dulles, U. S. , Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court The EPA argues that “waters” is “naturally read to en- compass wetlands” because the “presence of water is `uni- versally regarded as the most basic feature of wetlands.' ” Brief for Respondents . But that reading proves too much. Consider puddles, which are also defned by the ordi- nary presence of water even though few would describe them as “waters.” This argument is also tough to square with SWANCC, which held that the Act does not cover isolated ponds, see U. S., at , or Riverside Bayview, which would have had no need to focus so extensively on the adja- cency of wetlands to covered waters if the EPA's reading were correct, see U. S., at –, and n. . Finally, it is also instructive that the CWA expressly “protect[s] the primary responsibilities and rights of States to prevent, re- duce, and eliminate pollution” and “to plan the development and use . . . of land and water resources.” § (b). It is hard to see how the States' role in regulating water re- sources would remain “primary” if the EPA had jurisdic- tion over anything defned by the presence of water. See County of Maui v. Hawaii Wildlife Fund, U. S. –––, ––– (); Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). B Although the ordinary meaning of “waters” in § () might seem to exclude all wetlands, we do not view that pro- vision in isolation. The meaning of a word “may only be- come evident when placed in context,” FDA v. Brown & () (discussing a prohibition on boarding “vessels of the enemy on waters of the United States”); New Jersey v. New York City, U. S. , () (enjoining employees of New York City from dumping garbage “into the ocean, or waters of the United States, off the coast of New Jer- sey”); Cunard S. S. Co. v. Mellon, U. S. , () (holding that the National Prohibition Act did not apply to “merchant ships when out- side the waters of the United States”); Keck v. United States, U. S. , – () (holding that concealing imported goods on vessels “at the time of entering the waters of the United States,” without more, did not constitute smuggling). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Williamson Tobacco Corp., U. S. , (), and statutory context shows that some wetlands qualify as “wa- ters of the United States.” In , Congress amended the CWA and added § (g)(), which authorizes States to apply to the EPA for permission to administer programs to issue permits for the discharge of dredged or fll material into some bodies of water. In simplifed terms, the provision specifes that state permitting programs may regulate discharges into () any waters of the United States, () except for traditional naviga- ble waters, () “including wetlands adjacent thereto.” When this convoluted formulation is parsed, it tells us that at least some wetlands must qualify as “waters of the United States.” The provision begins with a broad category, “the waters of the United States,” which we may call category A. The provision provides that States may permit discharges into these waters, but it then qualifes that States cannot permit discharges into a subcategory of A: traditional navi- gable waters (category B). Finally, it states that a third cat- egory (category C), consisting of wetlands “adjacent” to traditional navigable waters, is “includ[ed]” within B. Thus, States may permit discharges into A minus B, which in- cludes C. If C (adjacent wetlands) were not part of A (“the waters of the United States”) and therefore subject to regu- lation under the CWA, there would be no point in excluding This provision states in relevant part: “The Governor of any State desiring to administer its own individual and general permit program for the discharge of dredged or fll material into the navigable waters (other than those waters which are presently used, or are susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to trans- port interstate or foreign commerce shoreward to their ordinary high water mark, including all waters which are subject to the ebb and fow of the tide shoreward to their mean high water mark, or mean higher high water mark on the west coast, including wetlands adjacent thereto) within its jurisdiction may submit to the Administrator a full and complete de- scription of the program it proposes to establish and administer under State law or under an interstate compact.” U. S. C. § (g)(). Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court them from that category. See Riverside Bayview, U. S., at , n. (recognizing that § (g) “at least suggest[s] strongly that the term `waters' as used in the Act does not necessarily exclude `wetlands' ”); Rapanos, U. S., at (opinion of Kennedy, J.). Thus, § (g)() presumes that certain wetlands constitute “waters of the United States.” But what wetlands does the CWA regulate? Section (g)() cannot answer that question alone because it is not the operative provision that defnes the Act's reach. See Riverside Bayview, U. S., at , n. . Instead, we must harmonize the reference to adjacent wetlands in §(g)() with “the waters of the United States,” §(), which is the actual term we are tasked with interpreting. The formulation discussed above tells us how: because the adjacent wetlands in §(g)() are “includ[ed]” within “the waters of the United States,” these wetlands must qualify as “waters of the United States” in their own right. In other words, they must be indistinguishably part of a body of water that itself constitutes “waters” under the CWA. See supra, at . This understanding is consistent with § (g)()'s use of “adjacent.” Dictionaries tell us that the term “adjacent” may mean either “contiguous” or “near.” Random House Dictionary ; see Webster's Third New International Dic- tionary (); see also Oxford American Dictionary & Thesaurus (d ed. ) (listing “adjoining” and “neigh- boring” as synonyms of “adjacent”). But “construing statu- tory language is not merely an exercise in ascertaining `the outer limits of a word's defnitional possibilities,' ” FCC v. AT&T Inc., U. S. , () (alterations omitted), and here, “only one . . . meanin[g] produces a substantive effect that is compatible with the rest of the law,” United Sav. Assn. of Tex. v. Timbers of Inwood Forest Associates, Ltd., U. S. , (). Wetlands that are separate from traditional navigable waters cannot be considered part of those waters, even if they are located nearby. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court In addition, it would be odd indeed if Congress had tucked an important expansion to the reach of the CWA into con- voluted language in a relatively obscure provision concern- ing state permitting programs. We have often remarked that Congress does not “hide elephants in mouseholes” by “alter[ing] the fundamental details of a regulatory scheme in vague terms or ancillary provisions.” Whitman v. Ameri- can Trucking Assns., Inc., U. S. , (). We cannot agree with such an implausible interpretation here. If § (g)() were read to mean that the CWA applies to wetlands that are not indistinguishably part of otherwise covered “waters of the United States,” see supra, at , it would effectively amend and substantially broaden § () to defne “navigable waters” as “waters of the United States and adjacent wetlands.” But § (g)()'s use of the term “including” makes clear that it does not purport to do—and in fact, does not do—any such thing. See National Assn. of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , –, and n. () (recognizing that implied amend- ments require “ `clear and manifest' ” evidence of congres- sional intent). It merely refects Congress's assumption that certain “adjacent” wetlands are part of “waters of the United States.” This is the thrust of observations in decisions going all the way back to Riverside Bayview. In that case, we deferred to the Corps' decision to regulate wetlands actually abut- ting a navigable waterway, but we recognized “the inherent diffculties of defning precise bounds to regulable waters.” U. S., at ; see also id., at (noting that “the transi- tion from water to solid ground is not necessarily or even typically an abrupt one” due to semi-aquatic features like shallows and swamps). In such a situation, we concluded, the Corps could reasonably determine that wetlands “adjoin- ing bodies of water” were part of those waters. Id., at , and n. ; see also SWANCC, U. S., at (recognizing that Riverside Bayview “held that the Corps had . . . juris- Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court diction over wetlands that actually abutted on a navigable waterway”). In Rapanos, the plurality spelled out clearly when adja- cent wetlands are part of covered waters. It explained that “waters” may fairly be read to include only those wetlands that are “as a practical matter indistinguishable from waters of the United States,” such that it is “diffcult to determine where the `water' ends and the `wetland' begins.” U. S., at , (emphasis deleted). That occurs when wetlands have “a continuous surface connection to bodies that are `wa- ters of the United States' in their own right, so that there is no clear demarcation between `waters' and wetlands.” Id., at ; cf. U. S. C. § () (defning “coastal waters” to include wetlands “having unimpaired connection with the open sea up to the head of tidal infuence”). We agree with this formulation of when wetlands are part of “the waters of the United States.” We also acknowledge that temporary interruptions in surface connection may sometimes occur be- cause of phenomena like low tides or dry spells. In sum, we hold that the CWA extends to only those wet- lands that are “as a practical matter indistinguishable from waters of the United States.” Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion) (emphasis deleted). This requires the party asserting jurisdiction over adjacent wetlands to estab- lish “frst, that the adjacent [body of water constitutes] . . . `water[s] of the United States,' (i. e., a relatively permanent body of water connected to traditional interstate navigable waters); and second, that the wetland has a continuous sur- face connection with that water, making it diffcult to deter- Although a barrier separating a wetland from a water of the United States would ordinarily remove that wetland from federal jurisdiction, a landowner cannot carve out wetlands from federal jurisdiction by illegally constructing a barrier on wetlands otherwise covered by the CWA. Whenever the EPA can exercise its statutory authority to order a barri- er's removal because it violates the Act, see §§ (a)–(b), that unlawful barrier poses no bar to its jurisdiction. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court mine where the `water' ends and the `wetland' begins.” Id., at . IV The EPA resists this reading of § () and instead asks us to defer to its understanding of the CWA's jurisdictional reach, as set out in its most recent rule defning “the waters of the United States.” See Fed. Reg. . This rule, as noted, provides that “adjacent wetlands are covered by the Act if they `possess a “signifcant nexus” to' traditional navigable waters.” Brief for Respondents (quoting Rap- anos, U. S., at (opinion of Kennedy, J.)); see Fed. Reg. . And according to the EPA, wetlands are “adja- cent” when they are “neighboring” to covered waters, even if they are separated from those waters by dry land. Brief for Respondents ; Fed. Reg. . A For reasons already explained, this interpretation is incon- sistent with the text and structure of the CWA. Beyond that, it clashes with “background principles of construction” that apply to the interpretation of the relevant statutory pro- visions. Bond, U. S., at . Under those presump- tions, the EPA must provide clear evidence that it is author- ized to regulate in the manner it proposes. First, this Court “require[s] Congress to enact exceedingly clear language if it wishes to signifcantly alter the balance between federal and state power and the power of the Government over private property.” United States Forest Service v. Cowpasture River Preservation Assn., U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); see also Bond, U. S., at . Regu- lation of land and water use lies at the core of traditional state authority. See, e. g., SWANCC, U. S., at (citing Hess v. Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corporation, U. S. , ()); Tarrant Regional Water Dist. v. Herr- Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court mann, U. S. , (). An overly broad interpre- tation of the CWA's reach would impinge on this authority. The area covered by wetlands alone is vast—greater than the combined surface area of California and Texas. And the scope of the EPA's conception of “the waters of the United States” is truly staggering when this vast territory is sup- plemented by all the additional area, some of which is gener- ally dry, over which the Agency asserts jurisdiction. Par- ticularly given the CWA's express policy to “preserve” the States' “primary” authority over land and water use, § (b), this Court has required a clear statement from Congress when determining the scope of “the waters of the United States.” SWANCC, U. S., at ; accord, Ra- panos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). The EPA, however, offers only a passing attempt to square its interpretation with the text of § (), and its “signif- cant nexus” theory is particularly implausible. It suggests that the meaning of “the waters of the United States” is so “broad and unqualifed” that, if viewed in isolation, it would extend to all water in the United States. Brief for Respond- ents . The EPA thus turns to the “signifcant nexus” test in order to reduce the clash between its understanding of “the waters of the United States” and the term defned by that phrase, i. e., “navigable waters.” As discussed, how- ever, the meaning of “waters” is more limited than the EPA believes. See supra, at . And, in any event, the CWA never mentions the “signifcant nexus” test, so the EPA has no statutory basis to impose it. See Rapanos, U. S., at – (plurality opinion). Second, the EPA's interpretation gives rise to serious vagueness concerns in light of the CWA's criminal penalties. Due process requires Congress to defne penal statutes “ `with suffcient defniteness that ordinary people can under- stand what conduct is prohibited' ” and “ `in a manner that does not encourage arbitrary and discriminatory enforce- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court ment.' ” McDonnell v. United States, U. S. , () (quoting Skilling v. United States, U. S. , – ()). Yet the meaning of “waters of the United States” under the EPA's interpretation remains “hopelessly indeterminate.” Sackett, U. S., at (Alito, J., concur- ring); accord, Hawkes Co., U. S., at (opinion of Ken- nedy, J.). The EPA contends that the only thing preventing it from interpreting “waters of the United States” to “conceivably cover literally every body of water in the country” is the signifcant-nexus test. Tr. of Oral Arg. –; accord, Brief for Respondents . But the boundary between a “signif- cant” and an insignifcant nexus is far from clear. And to add to the uncertainty, the test introduces another vague concept—“similarly situated” waters—and then assesses the aggregate effect of that group based on a variety of open- ended factors that evolve as scientific understandings change. This freewheeling inquiry provides little notice to landowners of their obligations under the CWA. Facing se- vere criminal sanctions for even negligent violations, prop- erty owners are “left `to feel their way on a case-by-case basis.' ” Sackett, U. S., at (quoting Rapanos, U. S., at (Roberts, C. J., concurring)). Where a penal statute could sweep so broadly as to render criminal a host of what might otherwise be considered ordinary activities, we have been wary about going beyond what “Congress cer- tainly intended the statute to cover.” Skilling, U. S., at . Under these two background principles, the judicial task when interpreting “the waters of the United States” is to ascertain whether clear congressional authorization exists for the EPA's claimed power. The EPA's interpretation falls far short of that standard. B While mustering only a weak textual argument, the EPA justifes its position on two other grounds. It primarily Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Opinion of the Court claims that Congress implicitly ratifed its interpretation of “adjacent” wetlands when it adopted § (g)(). Thus, it argues that “waters of the United States” covers any wet- lands that are “bordering, contiguous, or neighboring” to covered waters. Fed. Reg. . The principal opinion concurring in the judgment adopts the same position. See post, at – (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment). The EPA notes that the Corps had promulgated regulations adopting that interpretation before Congress amended the CWA in to include the reference to “adjacent” wetlands in § (g)(). See Fed. Reg. . This term, the EPA contends, was “ ` “obviously transplanted from” ' ” the Corps' regulations and thus incorporates the same defnition. Brief for Respondents (quoting Taggart v. Lorenzen, U. S. –––, ––– ()). This argument fails for at least three reasons. First, as we have explained, the text of §§ () and (g)() shows that “adjacent” cannot include wetlands that are not part of covered “waters.” See supra, at –. Second, this ratifcation theory cannot be reconciled with our cases. We have repeatedly recognized that § (g)() “ `does not conclusively determine the construction to be placed on . . . the relevant defnition of “navigable waters.” ' ” SWANCC, U. S., at (quoting Riverside Bayview, U. S., at , n. ); accord, Rapanos, U. S., at –, n. (plurality opinion). Additionally, SWANCC rejected the closely analogous argument that Congress ratifed the Corps' defnition of “waters of the United States” by includ- ing “ `other . . . waters' ” in § (g)(). U. S., at – . And yet, the EPA's argument would require us to hold that § (g)() actually did amend the defnition of “navi- gable waters” precisely for the reasons we rejected in SWANCC. Third, the EPA cannot provide the sort of “overwhelming evidence of acquiescence” necessary to support its argument in the face of Congress's failure to amend § (). Id., at Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court –, n. . We will infer that a term was “ `transplanted from another legal source' . . . only when a term's meaning was `well-settled' before the transplantation.” Kemp v. United States, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (). Far from being well settled, the Corps' defnition was promulgated mere months before the CWA became law, and when the Corps adopted that defnition, it candidly acknowledged the “rapidly changing nature of [its] regulatory programs.” Fed. Reg. . Tellingly, even the EPA would not adopt that defnition for several more years. See Fed. Reg. (). This situation is a far cry from any in which we have found ratifcation. See, e. g., George v. McDonough, U. S. –––, ––– () (fnding ratifcation when “Congress used an unusual term that had a long regulatory history in [the] very [regulatory] context” at issue). The EPA also advances various policy arguments about the ecological consequences of a narrower defnition of adja- cent. But the CWA does not defne the EPA's jurisdiction based on ecological importance, and we cannot redraw the Act's allocation of authority. See Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). “The Clean Water Act anticipates a partnership between the States and the Federal Govern- ment.” Arkansas v. Oklahoma, U. S. , (). States can and will continue to exercise their primary au- thority to combat water pollution by regulating land and water use. See, e. g., Brief for Farm Bureau of Arkansas et al. as Amici Curiae –. V Nothing in the separate opinions fled by Justice Kava- naugh and Justice Kagan undermines our analysis. Jus- tice Kavanaugh claims that we have “rewrit[ten]” the CWA, post, at (opinion concurring in judgment), and Jus- tice Kagan levels similar charges, post, at – (opinion concurring in judgment). These arguments are more than unfounded. We have analyzed the statutory language in SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring detail, but the separate opinions pay no attention whatsoever to § (), the key statutory provision that limits the CWA's geographic reach to “the waters of the United States.” Thus, neither separate opinion even attempts to explain how the wetlands included in their interpretation fall within a fair reading of “waters.” Textualist arguments that ignore the operative text cannot be taken seriously. VI In sum, we hold that the CWA extends to only those “wet- lands with a continuous surface connection to bodies that are `waters of the United States' in their own right,” so that they are “indistinguishable” from those waters. Rapanos, U. S., at , (plurality opinion) (emphasis deleted); see supra, at –. This holding compels reversal here. The wetlands on the Sacketts' property are distinguishable from any possibly covered waters. * * * We reverse the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and remand the case for fur- ther proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered. Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins, concurring. I join the Court's opinion in full. The Clean Water Act (CWA) confnes the Federal Government's jurisdiction to “ `navigable waters,' ” defned as “the waters of the United States.” U. S. C. §§ (a), (), (). And the Court correctly holds that the term “waters” reaches “ `only those relatively permanent, standing or continuously fowing bod- ies of water “forming geographic[al] features” that are de- scribed in ordinary parlance as “streams, oceans, rivers, and lakes.” ' ” Ante, at (quoting Rapanos v. United States, U. S. , () (plurality opinion)). It also cor- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring rectly holds that for a wetland to fall within this defnition, it must share a “ `continuous surface connection to bodies that are “waters of the United States” in their own right' ” such that “ `there is no clear demarcation between “waters” and wetlands.' ” Ante, at (quoting Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion)). However, like the Rapanos plurality before it, the Court focuses only on the term “waters”; it does not determine the extent to which the CWA's other jurisdictional terms—“navi- gable” and “of the United States”—limit the reach of the statute. Ante, at –; Rapanos, U. S., at (plu- rality opinion). I write separately to pick up where the Court leaves off. I The CWA's jurisdictional terms have a long pedigree and are bound up with Congress' traditional authority over the channels of interstate commerce. Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers, U. S. , , and n. , , – () (SWANCC). That tra- ditional authority was limited in two ways. First, the water had to be capable of being used as a highway for interstate or foreign commerce. Second, Congress could regulate such waters only for purposes of their navigability—by, for exam- ple, regulating obstructions hindering navigable capacity. By the time of the CWA's enactment, the New Deal era argu- ably had relaxed the second limitation; Congress could regu- late navigable waters for a wider range of purposes. But, critically, the statutory terms “navigable waters,” “navigable waters of the United States,” and “waters of the United States” were still understood as invoking only Congress' au- thority over waters that are, were, or could be used as high- ways of interstate or foreign commerce. The CWA was enacted, and must be understood, against that key backdrop. A As the Court correctly states, “land and water use lies at the core of traditional state authority.” Ante, at ; see Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring also ante, at . Prior to Independence, the Crown pos- sessed sovereignty over navigable waters in the Colonies, sometimes held in trust by colonial authorities. See R. Adler, The Ancient Mariner of Constitutional Law: The His- torical, Yet Declining Role of Navigability, Wash. U. L. Rev. , – (); R. Walston, The Federal Commerce and Navigation Powers: Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County's Undecided Constitutional Issue, Santa Clara L. Rev. , () (Walston). Upon Inde- pendence, this sovereignty was transferred to each of the fully sovereign States. See Martin v. Lessee of Waddell, Pet. , () (“[W]hen the Revolution took place, the people of each state became themselves sovereign; and in that character hold the absolute right to all their navigable waters and the soils under them for their own common use, subject only to the rights since surrendered by the Constitu- tion to the general government”). Thus, today, States enjoy primary sovereignty over their waters, including navigable waters—stemming either from their status as independent sovereigns following Independence, ibid., or their later ad- mission to the Union on an equal footing with the original States, see Lessee of Pollard v. Hagan, How. , () (“The shores of navigable waters, and the soils under them, were not granted by the Constitution to the United States, but were reserved to the states respectively. . . . The new states have the same rights, sovereignty, and jurisdiction over this subject as the original states”); see also M. Starr, Navigable Waters of the United States—State and National Control, Harv. L. Rev. , – (). The Federal Government therefore possesses no authority over navigable waters except that granted by the Constitution. The Federal Government's authority over certain naviga- ble waters is granted and limited by the Commerce Clause, which grants Congress power to “regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, § , cl. . From the beginning, it Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring was understood that “[t]he power to regulate commerce, in- cludes the power to regulate navigation,” but only “as con- nected with the commerce with foreign nations, and among the states.” United States v. Coombs, Pet. , () (Story, J., for the Court); accord, Gibbons v. Ogden, Wheat. , () (“All America understands . . . the word `com- merce,' to comprehend navigation. It was so understood, and must have been so understood, when the constitution was framed”); see also R. Barnett, The Original Meaning of the Commerce Clause, U. Chi. L. Rev. , – () (Barnett); R. Natelson, The Legal Meaning of “Commerce” in the Commerce Clause, St. John's L. Rev. , – (). In fact, “shipping . . . was at that time the indis- pensable means for the movement of goods.” Barnett . The Commerce Clause thus vests Congress with a limited authority over what we now call the “channels of inter- state commerce.” United States v. Lopez, U. S. , – (); see also American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Los Angeles, U. S. , – () (Thomas, J., concurring). This federal authority, however, does not displace States' traditional sovereignty over their waters. “The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that pur- pose, and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable waters of the United States which are accessible from a State other than those in which they lie.” Gilman v. Philadelphia, Wall. , – () (emphasis added). And, tradition- ally, this limited authority was confned to regulation of the channels of interstate commerce themselves. Corfeld v. Coryell, F. Cas. , – (No. ,) (CC ED Pa. ) (Washington, J., for the Court). It encompassed only “the power to keep them open and free from any obstruction to their navigation” and “to remove such obstructions when they exist.” Gilman, Wall., at . Thus, any activity that “interferes with, obstructs, or prevents such commerce and navigation, though done on land, may be punished by Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring congress.” Coombs, Pet., at . But, activities that merely “affect” water-based commerce, such as those regu- lated by “[i]nspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State,” are not within Congress' channels- of-commerce authority. Gibbons, Wheat., at ; see also Corfeld, F. Cas., at . This understanding of the limits of Congress' channels-of- commerce authority prevailed through the end of the th century. The Court's cases consistently recognized that Congress has authority over navigable waters for only the limited “purpose of regulating and improving navigation.” Gibson v. United States, U. S. , – (); see also Port of Seattle v. Oregon & Washington R. Co., U. S. , () (“The right of the United States in the naviga- ble waters within the several States is limited to the control thereof for purposes of navigation”). And, this Court was careful to reaffrm that “technical title to the beds of the navigable rivers of the United States is either in the States in which the rivers are situated, or in the owners of the land bordering upon such rivers” as determined by “local law.” United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Water Power Co., U. S. , (). The River and Harbor Acts of , , and illus- trate the limits of the channels-of-commerce authority. The Act authorizes the Secretary of War to “prohibi[t]” “the creation of any obstruction, not affrmatively authorized by law, to the navigable capacity of any waters, in respect of which the United States has jurisdiction.” § , Stat. . The Act made it unlawful to deposit matter into “any harbor or river of the United States” that the Federal Gov- ernment has appropriated money to improve and prohibited injuring improvements built by the United States in “any of its navigable waters.” § , Stat. . Congress consolidated and expanded these authorities in the Act. Section of the Act prohibits “[t]he creation Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring of any obstruction . . . to the navigable capacity of any of the waters of the United States,” requires a permit to build “structures in any . . . water of the United States,” and makes it unlawful “to excavate or fll, or in any manner to alter or modify the course, location, condition, or capacity” of any water, “within the limits of any breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of the United States.” Stat. (codifed, as amended, at U. S. C. § ). In ad- dition, § of the Act, sometimes referred to as the “Refuse Act,” prohibits throwing, discharging, or depositing “any re- fuse matter . . . into any navigable water of the United States, or into any tributary of any navigable water from which the same shall foat or be washed into such navigable water.” Stat. (codifed, as amended, at U. S. C. § ). Section also prohibits depositing material “on the bank of any navigable water, or on the bank of any tributary of any navigable water, where the same shall be liable to be washed into such navigable water . . . whereby navigation shall or may be impeded or obstructed.” Ibid. Three things stand out about these provisions. First, they use the terms “navigable water,” “water of the United States,” and “navigable water of the United States” inter- changeably. U. S. C. §§ and ; see also V. Al- brecht & S. Nickelsburg, Could SWANCC Be Right? A New Look at the Legislative History of the Clean Water Act, Env. L. Rev. , () (Albrecht & Nickelsburg). As a result, courts have done the same in decisions interpret- ing the River and Harbor Acts. See, e. g., United States v. Stoeco Homes, Inc., F. d , – (CA ); New England Dredging Co. v. United States, F. , – (CA ); Blake v. United States, F. Supp. , – (ED Va. ). Second, Congress asserted its authority only to the extent that obstructions or refuse matter could impede navigation or navigable capacity. Thus, in United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., U. S. (), this Court recog- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring nized that any “act sought to be enjoined” under the Act must be “one which fairly and directly tends to obstruct (that is, interfere with or diminish) the navigable capacity of a stream.” Id., at ; accord, Lake Shore & Michigan Southern R. Co. v. Ohio, U. S. , () (holding that federal jurisdiction over “navigable waters” was limited to preventing “interfering with commerce”). Similarly, in Wisconsin v. Illinois, U. S. (), this Court in- terpreted the Act in light of the constitutional prohibi- tion on Congress “arbitrarily destroy[ing] or impair[ing] the rights of riparian owners by legislation which has no real or substantial relation to the control of navigation or appropri- ateness to that end.” Id., at . The touchstone, thus, remained actual navigation. Third, § of the Act requires some form of surface water connection between a tributary and traditionally navigable waters. See U. S. C. § (prohibiting depositing refuse “into any tributary of any navigable water from which the same shall foat or be washed into such navigable water”). To be sure, the Refuse Act also prohibits leaving refuse “on the bank of any navigable water, or on the bank of any tribu- tary of any navigable water, where the same shall be liable to be washed into such navigable water.” Ibid. But, this prohibition refects nothing more than Congress' traditional Courts had long carefully enforced limits on Congress' navigation au- thority in prosecutions brought under the Act of July , , ch. , Stat. (Steamboat Acts of ), which prohibited the transportation of goods “upon the bays, lakes, rivers, or other navigable waters of the United States” by certain steamboats. See, e. g., The Seneca, F. Cas. (No. ,) (DC Wis. ); see also The James Morrison, F. Cas. , (No. ,) (DC Mo. ) (holding that the Act did not reach a ship whose “employment ha[d] no other than a remote connection with `commerce or navigation among the several states;' no more connec- tion than has the farmer who cultivates hemp, tobacco or cotton for a market in other states—the miner who digs and smelts lead—the manufac- turer who manufactures for the same market, or the traveler who intends purchasing any of these articles”). Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring authority to regulate acts done on land that directly impair the navigability of traditionally navigable waters. See Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., U. S., at (explaining that the Act reaches “any obstruction to the navigable capac- ity, and anything, wherever done or however done, . . . which tends to destroy the navigable capacity of one of the naviga- ble waters of the United States”); see also Northern Pacifc R. Co. v. United States, F. , (CA ); Coombs, Pet., at . It does not mean that the land itself is a navigable water. The history of federal regulation of navigable waters dem- onstrates that Congress' authority over navigation, as tradi- tionally understood, was narrow but deep. It only applied to a discrete set of navigable waters and could only be used to keep those waters open for interstate commerce. See Port of Seattle, U. S., at ; Rio Grande Dam & Irriga- tion Co., U. S., at . Yet, where Congress had author- ity, it displaced the States' traditional sovereignty over their navigable waters and allowed Congress to regulate activities even on land that could directly cause obstructions to naviga- ble capacity. Gilman, Wall., at –; Coombs, Pet., at . In light of the depth of this new federal power, it was carefully limited—mere “effects” on interstate commerce were not suffcient to trigger Congress' navigation authority. As one District Court presciently observed in interpreting the term “navigable waters of the United States” in the Steamboat Act of : “To make a particular branch of commerce or trade within a state, a part of the commerce among the several The early th century also saw the Reclamation Act of , ch. , Stat. ; Federal Power Act, ch. , Stat. ; Oil Pollution Act, , ch. , Stat. ; and Flood Control Act of , ch. , Stat. , all of which relied on navigability. See Walston –. Although the Acts were also designed to achieve incidental benefts such as pollution control, Congress located its authority in preserving navigation. Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring states, it would not be suffcient that it was remotely connected with that commerce among the several states; for almost everything and every occupation and employ- ment in life are remotely connected with that commerce or navigation. And if Congress has the right to regu- late every employment or pursuit thus remotely con- nected with that commerce, of which they have the con- trol, then it has the right to regulate nearly the entire business and employment of the citizens of the several states. . . . Yet, if Congress has the power to regulate all these employments, and a thousand others equally connected with that commerce, then it can regulate nearly all the concerns of life, and nearly all the employ- ments of the citizens of the several states; and the state governments might as well be abolished. It is not suf- fcient, then, that navigation, or trade, or business of any kind, within a state, be remotely connected, or, perhaps, connected at all with `commerce with foreign nations, or among the several states, or with the Indian tribes,' it should be a part of that commerce, to authorize congress to regulate it.” The James Morrison, F. Cas. , (No. ,) (DC Mo. ). The Court's observation that “federal regulation was largely limited to ensuring that `traditional navigable waters' . . . remained free of impediments,” ante, at , thus does no more than refect the original understanding of the federal authority over navigable waters. B As noted above, the scope of Congress' authority over wa- ters was defned by the traditional concept of navigability, imported with signifcant modifcations from the English common law. Thus, Congress could regulate only “naviga- The English rule tied navigability to the ebb and fow of the tides, but began to be eroded in America as early as the Northwest Ordinance of due to the superior commercial capacity of American inland riv- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring ble waters.” Consistent with that backdrop, the term “navi- gable waters”—used interchangeably with “waters of the United States” and “navigable waters of the United States”—referred to the waters subject to Congress' tradi- tional authority over navigable waters until the enactment of the CWA. The term “navigable waters” has been in use since the founding to refer to the highways of commerce that were key to the Nation's development. Great cities like Phila- delphia and St. Louis emerged at frst as commercial ports along these navigable waters. The Framers recognized that “Providence has in a particular manner blessed” our country with “[a] succession of navigable waters” that “bind [the Na- tion] together; while the most noble rivers in the world, running at convenient distances, present [Americans] with highways for the easy communication of friendly aids and the mutual transportation and exchange of their various commodities.” The Federalist No. , p. (C. Rossiter ed. ) (J. Jay). These “vast rivers, stretching far inland” have been of “transcendent importance” to our Nation's eco- nomic expansion by forming “great highways” for commerce. L. Houck, Law of Navigable Rivers xiii (). This Court authoritatively set out the scope of the term “navigable waters of the United States” in the seminal case of The Daniel Ball, Wall. (). That case arose under the Steamboat Act of , which prohibited the trans- portation of goods “upon the bays, lakes, rivers, or other nav- ers. See The Daniel Ball, Wall. , (); Propeller Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, How. , – (); see also Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States, U. S. , () (“[I]t is curious and interesting that the importance of these inland waterways, and the inap- propriateness of the tidal test in defning our navigable waters, was thus recognized by the Congress of the Confederation [in the Northwest Ordi- nance] more than years before this court decided The Daniel Ball . . . and more than years before The Propeller Genesee Chief ”). Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring igable waters of the United States.” § , Stat. . This Court held that the term “navigable” refers to waters that are “navigable in fact,” meaning that “they are used, or are susceptible of being used, in their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes of trade and travel on water.” The Daniel Ball, Wall., at . The Court then explained that navigable waters are “of the United States,” “in contradistinction from the navigable wa- ters of the States, when they form in their ordinary condition by themselves, or by uniting with other waters, a continued highway over which commerce is or may be carried on with other States or foreign countries in the customary modes in which such commerce is conducted by water.” Ibid.; see also The Montello, Wall. , () (“If . . . the river is not of itself a highway for commerce with other States or foreign countries, or does not form such highway by its connection with other waters, and is only navigable between different places within the State, then it is not a navigable water of the United States, but only a navigable water of the State”). It is this “junction” between waters to “for[m] a continued highway for commerce, both with other States and with foreign countries,” that brings the water “under the direct control of Congress in the exercise of its commercial power.” The Daniel Ball, Wall., at . The defnition of a “navigable water of the United States” was thus linked directly to the limits on Congress' commerce authority: A navigable water of the United States was one that was ordi- narily used for interstate or foreign commerce. Wetlands were generally excluded from this defnition. In Leovy v. United States, U. S. (), for example, the Court employed the Daniel Ball test to hold that the term “navigable waters of the United States,” as used in the River and Harbor Act, did not “prevent the exercise by the State of Louisiana of its power to reclaim swamp and overfowed lands by regulating and controlling the current Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring of small streams not used habitually as arteries of interstate commerce.” U. S., at . The Court observed that applying the Act to wetlands reclamation “would extend the paramount jurisdiction of the United States over all the fowing waters in the States.” Id., at . “If such were the necessary construction of the” term “navigable water,” the Court explained, the River and Harbor Act's “validity might well be questioned.” Ibid. But, the Court declined to interpret the Act to reach the wetlands, because it recog- nized that the phrase “navigable waters of the United States” encompassed only those waters reached by the tradi- tional channels-of-commerce authority: “When it is remembered that the source of the power of the general government to act at all in this matter arises out of its power to regulate commerce with foreign coun- tries and among the States, it is obvious that what the Constitution and the acts of Congress have in view is the promotion and protection of commerce in its interna- tional and interstate aspect, and a practical construction must be put on these enactments as intended for such large and important purposes.” Ibid. The Court thus held that the mere use of a wetland by fsh- ermen was not suffcient to make the wetland a navigable water of the United States; it “was not shown that passen- gers were ever carried through it, or that freight destined to any other State than Louisiana, or, indeed, destined for any market in Louisiana, was ever, much less habitually, carried through it.” Id., at . Leovy v. United States also refected the law's longstanding hostility to wetlands: “If there is any fact which may be supposed to be known by everybody, and, therefore, by courts, it is that swamps and stagnant wa- ters are the cause of malarial and malignant fevers, and that the police power is never more legitimately exercised than in removing such nui- sances.” U. S., at . Traditionally, the only time wetlands were the subject of federal legislation was to aid the States in draining them. See, e. g., Swamp Land Act of , ch. , Stat. ; see also S. Johnson, Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring The Daniel Ball test, with minor variations, marked the limits of federal jurisdiction over waters up to the enactment of the CWA. For instance, in Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States, U. S. (), the Court applied The Daniel Ball but expanded it to hold that the River and Har- bor Act of reaches waters that are not currently capable of supporting interstate commerce, though they once did. U. S., at –. And, in United States v. Appalachian Elec. Power Co., U. S. (), the Court applied The Daniel Ball to reach waters that could be made navigable with reasonable and feasible improvement. U. S., at –. While these cases expanded the outer boundaries of the term, creating an expanded form of the Daniel Ball test, they refect the Court's longstanding view that the stat- utory term “navigable water” required application of the Daniel Ball test. In the New Deal era, as is well known, this Court adopted a greatly expanded conception of Congress' commerce au- thority by permitting Congress to regulate any private in- trastate activity that substantially affects interstate com- merce, either by itself or when aggregated with many similar activities. See Wickard v. Filburn, U. S. , – (); see also United States v. Darby, U. S. , (). Yet, this expansion did not fundamentally change the Court's understanding that the term “navigable waters” referred to waters used for interstate commerce. Thus, in Appalachian Elec., the Court continued to apply the concept of navigability to determine the scope of Congress' Com- merce Clause authority to require licenses under the Federal Water Power Act for the construction of hydroelectric dams in “navigable waters.” U. S., at –. Only after Wetlands Law: A Course Source – (d ed. ). Wetlands preserva- tion only gained traction due, in large part, to advances in frearms tech- nology that made waterfowl hunting feasible. G. Baldassarre & E. Bolen, Waterfowl Ecology and Management – (). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring applying the Daniel Ball defnition to determine that the river in question was navigable did the Court hold that Con- gress had plenary authority over the erection of structures in the river, regardless of whether the structure actually im- peded navigability. U. S., at –. While this rep- resented an expansive application of the old concept that Congress can prevent obstructions to navigable capacity, see supra, at , –, Appalachian Elec. made clear that the term “navigable waters” remained tethered to Congress' traditional channels-of-commerce authority—not to the broader conceptions of the commerce authority adopted by the Court at that time. The next year, in Oklahoma ex rel. Phillips v. Guy F. At- kinson Co., U. S. (), the Court reaffrmed that the term “navigable waters,” this time as used in the Flood Control Act of , was to be interpreted in light of the expanded Daniel Ball test. U. S., at –. Signif- cantly, Oklahoma was decided mere months after Darby, one of the most signifcant cases expanding the scope of the com- merce authority. U. S., at . However, Oklahoma did not so much as mention Darby in construing the jurisdic- tion Congress conveyed in the term “navigable waters.” In- stead, it cited Darby only in passing and to support the argu- ment that, once a river is deemed navigable under the channels-of-commerce authority, Congress has authority to protect “the nation's arteries of commerce” by regulating in- trastate activities on nonnavigable parts and tributaries of the navigable river lest such activities “impai[r] navigation itself.” Oklahoma, U. S., at . This was nothing more than an application of the principle that Congress can regulate activities that obstruct navigable capacity. Thus, even as the Court expanded the Commerce Clause in other contexts, it continued to understand that the term “naviga- ble waters” refers solely to the aquatic channels of interstate commerce over which Congress traditionally exercised authority. SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring This understanding of the term “navigable waters”—i. e., as shorthand for waters subject to Congress' authority under the Daniel Ball test—persisted up to the enactment of the CWA. See, e. g., Stoeco Homes, Inc., F. d, at –; United States v. Joseph G. Moretti, Inc., F. d , – (CA ); see also D. Guinn, An Analysis of Navigable Waters of the United States, Baylor L. Rev. , () (“[T]he test of The Daniel Ball and Appalachian Power Co. are religiously cited as being the basis for the holding on the issue of navigability”). As a court observed near the time of the CWA's enactment, “[a]lthough the def- nition of `navigability' laid down in The Daniel Ball has sub- sequently been modifed and clarifed, its defnition of `navi- gable water of the United States,' insofar as it requires a navigable interstate linkage by water, appears to remain un- changed.” Hardy Salt Co. v. Southern Pacifc Transp. Co., F. d , (CA ) (citations omitted). This Court's cases, too, continued to apply traditional navigability concepts in cases under the River and Harbor Acts right up to the CWA's enactment. See United States v. Standard Oil Co., U. S. , () (holding that spilling oil in a navigable water was prohibited by the Refuse Act (§ of the Act) because “its presence in our rivers and harbors is both a menace to navigation and a pollutant”); United States v. Republic Steel Corp., U. S. , – () (“diminution of the navigable capacity of a waterway” re- quired for violation of the Refuse Act). Thus, on the eve of the CWA's enactment, the term “navigable waters” meant those waters that are, were, or could be used as highways of interstate or foreign commerce. II This history demonstrates that Congress was not writing on a blank slate in the CWA, which defnes federal jurisdic- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring tion using the same terms used in the River and Harbor Acts: “navigable waters” and “the waters of the United States,” U. S. C. §§ (a), (), (). As explained above, courts and Congress had long used the terms “naviga- ble water,” “navigable water of the United States,” and “the waters of the United States” interchangeably to signify those waters to which the traditional channels-of-commerce au- thority extended. See supra, at . The terms “naviga- ble waters” and “waters of the United States” shared a core requirement that the water be a “highway over which com- merce is or may be carried,” with the term “of the United States” doing the independent work of requiring that such commerce “be carried on with other States or foreign coun- tries.” The Daniel Ball, Wall., at . The text of the CWA thus refects the traditional balance between federal and state authority over navigable waters, as set out by The Daniel Ball. It would be strange indeed if Congress sought to effect a fundamental transformation of federal jurisdiction over water through phrases that had been in use to describe the traditional scope of that jurisdiction for well over a cen- tury and that carried a well-understood meaning. The Army Corps of Engineers originally understood the CWA in precisely this way. In its regulation establish- In fact, when Congress has wished to depart from this traditional meaning, it has done so expressly, as in parts of the Federal Power Act, § , Stat. (requiring approval for dam construction “across, along, over, or in any stream or part thereof, other than those defned herein this chapter as navigable waters”); the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, ch. , § (a), Stat. (as amended, Stat. ) (authorizing federal- state cooperation to abate water pollution in “interstate waters” and their tributaries); and the Water Quality Act of , Stat. – (authoriz- ing grants to research abatement of pollution into “any waters”); see Hardy Salt Co. v. Southern Pacifc Transp. Co., F. d , (CA ) (noting that Congress only departs from the expanded Daniel Ball test by using “clear and explicit language,” as it did in parts of the Federal Power Act). Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring ing the frst CWA § permitting program, the Corps in- terpreted the term “the waters of the United States” to es- tablish jurisdiction over the traditional navigable waters as determined by the expanded Daniel Ball test, noting also that the term is limited by Congress' navigation authority. Fed. Reg. . The Corps anchored its jurisdiction in the expanded Daniel Ball test, defning “navigable waters” to include “those waters of the United States which are sub- ject to the ebb and fow of the tide, and/or are presently, or have been in the past, or may be in the future susceptible for use for purposes of interstate or foreign commerce.” CFR § .(d)() (); see also §§ .(d)()–() (re- quiring “[p]ast, present, or potential presence of interstate or foreign commerce,” “[p]hysical capabilities for use by com- merce,” and “[d]efned geographic limits of the water body”). The regulations also made clear that traditional navigability factors were the baseline for CWA jurisdiction: “It is the water body's capability of use by the public for purposes of transportation or commerce which is the determinative factor.” § .(e)(). Almost immediately, however, a few courts and the re- cently created Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) re- jected this interpretation. Instead, they interpreted the CWA to assert the full extent of Congress' New Deal era authority to regulate anything that substantially affects in- terstate commerce by itself or in the aggregate. See United States v. Ashland Oil & Transp. Co., F. d , – (CA ); P. F. Z. Properties, Inc. v. Train, F. Supp. , (DC ); National Resources Defense Council, Inc. v. Callaway, F. Supp. , (DC ); United States v. Holland, F. Supp. , , – (MD Fla. ); CFR § .(o) () (initial EPA CWA defni- tion). The courts that reached this conclusion relied almost exclusively on legislative history and statutory purpose. Section authorizes the Corps to “issue permits . . . for the discharge of dredged or fll material into the navigable waters at specifed disposal sites.” U. S. C. §§ (a), (d). Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring See, e. g., Holland, F. Supp., at (“The foregoing [leg- islative history] compels the Court to conclude that the for- mer test of navigability was indeed defned away in the [CWA]”). But signals from legislative history cannot rebut clear statutory text, and the text of the CWA employs words that had long been universally understood to reach only those waters subject to Congress' channels-of-commerce au- thority. See supra, at . These courts and the EPA had only one textual hook for their interpretation: In defning the term “navigable waters” as “the waters of the United States,” the CWA seemed to drop the term “navigable” from the operative part of the definition. Seizing on this phrasing, the EPA's general counsel asserted in that “the deletion of the word `navi- gable' eliminates the requirement of navigability. The only remaining requirement, then, is that pollution of waters cov- ered by the bill must be capable of affecting interstate com- merce.” EPA Gen. Counsel Op. (). Similarly, the District Court that vacated the Corps' original CWA defni- tion held, without any analysis or citation, that the term “the waters of the United States” in the CWA is “not limited to the traditional tests of navigability.” National Resources Defense Council, F. Supp., at . That interpretation cannot be right. For one, the terms “navigable waters” and “the waters of the United States” had long been used synonymously by courts and Congress. The CWA simply used the terms in the same manner as the River and Harbor Acts. Moreover, no source prior to the CWA had ever asserted that the term “the waters of the United States,” when not modifed by “navigable,” reached any water that may affect interstate commerce. Instead, The Daniel Ball made clear that “[t]he phrase `waters of the United States, . . . in contradistinction from the navigable waters of the States,' . . . distinguishes interstate from intra- state waters.” Albrecht & Nickelsburg (quoting The Daniel Ball, Wall., at ); accord, A. Knauth, Benedict on Admiralty § , p. (th ed. ) (“The inland lakes of SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring various States are navigable but, having no navigable outlet linking them with our system of water-ways, have never been held to be public waters of the United States” (emphasis added)). The text of the CWA extends jurisdiction to “navi- gable waters,” and—precisely tracking The Daniel Ball— clarifes that it reaches “the waters of the United States,” rather than the navigable waters of the States. Thus, the CWA's use of the phrase “the waters of the United States” reinforces, rather than lessens, the need for a water to be at least part of “a continued highway over which commerce is or may be carried on with other States or foreign countries in the customary modes in which such commerce is conducted by water.” The Daniel Ball, Wall., at . At most, the omission of the word “navigable” signifes that the CWA adopts the expanded Daniel Ball test—that includes waters that are, have been, or can be rea- sonably made navigable in fact—in its statutory provisions. The Federal Government's interpretation, by contrast, ren- ders the use of the term “navigable” a nullity and involves an unprecedented and extravagant reading of the well- understood term of art “the waters of the United States.” See Albrecht & Nickelsburg (“EPA's conclusion is ahis- torical as well as illogical”). “[T]he waters of the United States” does not mean any water in the United States. To be sure, the CWA is more aggressive in regulating navigable waters than the River and Harbor Acts. But, the increased stringency is not accomplished by expanding jurisdiction. The Acts use the same jurisdic- tional terms. Instead, the difference between them lies in the expanded scope of activities that the CWA regulates and its shift from an enforce- ment and injunctive regime to a previolation licensing regime. See Al- brecht & Nickelsburg . I express no view on the constitutionality of this regime as applied to navigable waters or on the Court's holding in United States v. Appalachian Elec. Power Co., U. S. (), that Congress can regulate things in navigable waters for purposes other than removing obstructions to navigable capacity. I note, however, that before the New Deal era, courts consistently construed statutes to authorize only federal actions preserving navigable capacity in order to avoid exceeding Congress' navigation authority. See supra, at –. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring There would be little need to explain any of this if the agencies had not effectively flouted our decision in SWANCC, which restored navigability as the touchstone of federal jurisdiction under the CWA, and rejected the key arguments supporting an expansive interpretation of the CWA's text. We expressly held that Congress' “use of the phrase `waters of the United States' ” in the CWA is not “a basis for reading the term `navigable waters' out of the stat- ute”—directly contradicting the EPA's interpretation, upon which every subsequent expansion of its authority has been based. U. S., at . We also held that the Corps did not “mist[ake] Congress' intent” when it promulgated its regulations, under which “ `the determinative factor' ” for navigability was a “ `water body's capability of use by the public for purposes of transportation or commerce.' ” Id., at (quoting CFR § .(e)()). In doing so, we re- jected reliance on the CWA's “ambiguous” legislative history, which the EPA had used “to expand the defnition of `naviga- ble waters' ” to the outer limit of the commerce authority as interpreted in the New Deal. U. S., at , n. . In- stead, we made clear that Congress did not intend “to exert anything more than its commerce power over navigation.” Ibid.; see also id., at (rejecting the Government's ar- gument that the CWA invokes “Congress' power to regu- late intrastate activities that `substantially affect' interstate commerce”). SWANCC thus interpreted the text of the CWA as imple- menting Congress' “traditional jurisdiction over waters that The historical context demonstrates that it was the Corps' failure to regulate to the full extent of Congress' navigation power, not its commerce power generally, that led to the enactment of the CWA. See Albrecht & Nickelsburg (explaining that the CWA's legislative history is better interpreted “as the Supreme Court in SWANCC read it, to mean simply that Congress intended to override previous, unduly narrow agency inter- pretations to assert its broadest constitutional authority over the tradi- tional navigable waters”); see also S. Bodine, Examining the Term “Wa- ters of the United States” in Its Historical Context, C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the Administrative State Policy Brief No. (). SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring were or had been navigable in fact or which could reason- ably be so made”—i. e., the expanded Daniel Ball test. U. S., at (citing Appalachian Elec., U. S., at – ). And, consistent with the traditional link between navigability and the limits of Congress' regulatory authority, SWANCC noted that any broader interpretation would raise “signifcant constitutional and federalism questions” and “re- sult in a signifcant impingement of the States' traditional and primary power over land and water use.” U. S., at . Both in its holdings and in its mode of analysis, SWANCC cannot be reconciled with the agencies' sharp departure from the centuries-old understanding of naviga- Section (g), added by the CWA Amendments, does not demon- strate that the CWA departs from traditional conceptions of navigability. That provision states that States may administer permit programs for discharges into “navigable waters (other than those waters which are pres- ently used, or are susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reason- able improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce . . . , including wetlands adjacent thereto).” Stat. (codifed, as amended, at U. S. C. § (g)). This provision thus authorizes States to establish their own permit programs over a discrete class of tradition- ally navigable waters of the United States: those that once were navigable waters of the United States, but are no longer navigable in fact. See Economy Light & Power Co., U. S., at –. Some have asserted that this nonjurisdictional provision—the function of which in the statute is to expand state authority—signals that Congress actually intended an unprecedented expansion of federal authority over the States. Rapanos v. United States, U. S. , – () (Stevens, J., dissenting); see also post, at – (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment); post, at – (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment). But, as the Court explains, not only is § (g) not the relevant defnitional provision, its reference to “wetlands” is perfectly consistent with the commonsense recognition that some wetlands are indistinguishable from navigable waters with which they have continuous surface connections. Ante, at –, –. To infer Congress' intent to upend over a century of settled understanding and effect an unprecedented transfer of authority over land and water to the Federal Government, based on nothing more than a negative inference from a parenthetical in a subsection that preserves state authority, is coun- terintuitive to say the least. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring bility and the traditional limits of Congress' channels-of- commerce authority. In sum, the plain text of the CWA and our opinion in SWANCC demonstrate that the CWA must be interpreted in light of Congress' traditional authority over navigable waters. See Albrecht & Nickelsburg (noting that SWANCC “states more than once that Congress' use of the term `navigable waters' signifes that Congress intended to exercise its traditional authority over navigable waters, and not its broader power over all things that substantially affect commerce”). Yet, for decades, the EPA (of its own license) and the Corps (under the compulsion of an unreasoned and since discredited District Court order) have issued substan- tively identical regulatory defnitions of “the waters of the United States” that completely ignore navigability and in- stead expand the CWA's coverage to the outer limits of the Court's New Deal-era Commerce Clause precedents. III This case demonstrates the unbounded breadth of the ju- risdiction that the EPA and the Corps have asserted under the CWA. The regulatory defnition applied to the Sacketts' property declares “intrastate” waters, wetlands, and various other wet things to be “waters of the United States” if their “use, degradation or destruction . . . could affect interstate or foreign commerce.” CFR § .(s)() () (empha- sis added). To leave no doubt that the agencies have en- tirely broken from traditional navigable waters, they give several examples of qualifying waters: those that “are or could be used by interstate or foreign travelers for recre- ational or other purposes,” those “[f]rom which fsh or shell- fsh are or could be taken and sold in interstate or foreign commerce,” those that “are used or could be used for indus- trial purposes by industries in interstate commerce,” “[t]rib- utaries of” any such waters, and “[w]etlands adjacent to” any such waters. §§ .(s)()(i)–(iii), (), (). This defnition Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring and others like it are premised on the fallacy repudiated in SWANCC: that the text of the CWA expands federal juris- diction beyond Congress' traditional “commerce power over navigation.” U. S., at , n. . Nonetheless, under these boundless standards, the agen- cies have “asserted jurisdiction over virtually any parcel of land containing a channel or conduit . . . through which rain- water or drainage may occasionally or intermittently fow,” including “storm drains, roadside ditches, ripples of sand in the desert that may contain water once a year, and lands that are covered by floodwaters once every years.” Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). The agencies' defnition “engulf[s] entire cities and immense arid waste- lands” alike. Ibid. Indeed, because “the entire land area of the United States lies in some drainage basin, and an endless network of visible channels furrows the entire surface,” “[a]ny plot of land containing such a channel may potentially be regulated.” Ibid. If this interpretation were correct, the only prudent move for any landowner in America would be to ask the Federal Government for permission before undertaking any kind of development. See Tr. of Oral Arg. , –. This re- gime turns Congress' traditionally limited navigation au- thority on its head. The baseline under the Constitution, the CWA, and the Court's precedents is state control of waters. See SWANCC, U. S., at (reaffrming “the States' traditional and primary power over land and water use”); Leovy, U. S., at (repudiating an interpretation of the Act that would render practically every “creek or stream in the entire country” a “navigable water of the United States” and “subject the offcers and agents of a State . . . to fne and imprisonment” for draining a swamp “unless permission [was] frst obtained from the Secretary of War”). By contrast, the agencies' interpretation amounts to a fed- eral police power, exercised in the most aggressive possi- ble way. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring Thankfully, applying well-established navigability rules makes this a straightforward case. The “wetlands” on the Sacketts' property are not “waters of the United States” for several independently suffcient reasons. First, for the rea- sons set out by the Court, the Sacketts' wetlands are not “waters” because they lack a continuous surface connection with a traditional navigable water. See ante, at . Sec- ond, the nonnavigable so-called “tributary” (really, a road- side ditch) across the street from the Sacketts' property is not a water of the United States because it is not, has never been, and cannot reasonably be made a highway of interstate or foreign commerce. See SWANCC, U. S., at . Third, the agencies have not attempted to establish that Priest Lake is a navigable water under the expanded Daniel Ball test. The lake is purely intrastate, and the agencies have not shown that it is a highway of interstate or foreign commerce. Instead, the agencies rely primarily upon inter- state tourism and the lake's attenuated connection to naviga- ble waters. See U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, G. Rayner, Priest Lake Jurisdictional Determination (Feb. , ); see also Brief for National Association of Home Builders of the United States as Amicus Curiae –. But, this is likely insuffcient under the traditional navigability tests to which the CWA pegs jurisdiction. See supra, at –; accord, Tr. of Oral Arg. (EPA counsel conceding that Congress “hasn't used its full Commerce Clause authority” in the CWA). Finally, even assuming that a navigable water is in- volved, the agencies have not established that the Sacketts' actions would obstruct or otherwise impede navigable capac- ity or the suitability of the water for interstate commerce. See Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., U. S., at . This is not to say that determining whether a water quali- fes under the CWA is always easy. But, it is vital that we ask the right question in determining what constitutes “the waters of the United States”: whether the water is within Congress' traditional authority over the interstate channels Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Thomas, J., concurring of commerce. Here, no elaborate analysis is required to know that the Sacketts' land is not a water, much less a water of the United States. IV What happened to the CWA is indicative of deeper prob- lems with the Court's Commerce Clause jurisprudence. The eclipse of Congress' well-defned authority over the channels of interstate commerce tracks the Court's expansion of Con- gress' power “[t]o regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, § , cl. . As I have explained at length, the Court's Commerce Clause jurisprudence has signifcantly departed from the original meaning of the Constitution. See Gonza- les v. Raich, U. S. , – () (dissenting opinion); Lopez, U. S., at – (concurring opinion). “The Clause's text, structure, and history all indicate that, at the time of the founding, the term ` “commerce” consisted of sell- ing, buying, and bartering, as well as transporting for these purposes.' ” Raich, U. S., at . This meaning “stood in contrast to productive activities like manufacturing and agriculture,” and founding era sources demonstrate that “the term `commerce' [was] consistently used to mean trade or exchange—not all economic or gainful activity that has some attenuated connection to trade or exchange.” Ibid. (citing Lopez, U. S., at – (Thomas, J., concurring); Bar- nett –). By departing from this limited mean- Further scholarship notes that the term “commerce” as originally un- derstood “was bound tightly with the Lex Mercatoria and the sort of ac- tivities engaged in by merchants: buying and selling products made by others (and sometimes land), associated fnance and fnancial instruments, navigation and other carriage, and intercourse across jurisdictional lines.” R. Natelson, The Legal Meaning of “Commerce” in the Commerce Clause, St. John's L. Rev. , (). This “did not include agriculture, manufacturing, mining, malum in se crime, or land use. Nor did it in- clude activities that merely `substantially affected' commerce; on the con- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., concurring ing, the Court's cases have licensed federal regulatory schemes that would have been “unthinkable” to the Constitu- tion's Framers and ratifers. Raich, U. S., at (opinion of Thomas, J.). Perhaps nowhere is this deviation more evident than in federal environmental law, much of which is uniquely de- pendent upon an expansive interpretation of the Commerce Clause. See Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclama- tion Assn., Inc., U. S. , – (); see also Brief for Claremont Institute's Center for Constitutional Jurispru- dence as Amicus Curiae –. And many environmental regulatory schemes seem to push even the limits of the Court's New Deal-era Commerce Clause precedents, see Hodel, U. S., at – (Rehnquist, J., concurring in judgment), to say nothing of the Court's more recent prece- dents reining in the commerce power. See, e. g., SWANCC, U. S., at –; cf. Rancho Viejo, LLC v. Norton, F. d , (CADC ) (per curiam) (Roberts, J., dis- senting from denial of rehearing en banc) (“The panel's ap- proach in this case leads to the result that regulating the taking [under the Endangered Species Act] of a hapless toad that, for reasons of its own, lives its entire life in California constitutes regulating `Commerce among the several States' ” (ellipsis omitted)). The Court's opinion today curbs a serious expansion of fed- eral authority that has simultaneously degraded States' au- thority and diverted the Federal Government from its im- portant role as guarantor of the Nation's great commercial water highways into something resembling “a local zon- ing board.” Rapanos, U. S., at (plurality opinion). But, wetlands are just the beginning of the problems raised by the agencies' assertion of jurisdiction in this case. De- spite our clear guidance in SWANCC that the CWA extends trary, the cases include wording explicitly distinguishing such activities from commerce.” Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kagan, J., concurring in judgment only to the limits of Congress' traditional jurisdiction over navigable waters, the EPA and the Corps have continued to treat the statute as if it were based on New Deal era concep- tions of Congress' commerce power. But, while not all envi- ronmental statutes are so textually limited, Congress chose to tether federal jurisdiction under the CWA to its tradi- tional authority over navigable waters. The EPA and the Corps must respect that decision. Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Jackson join, concurring in the judgment. Like Justice Kavanaugh, “I would stick to the text.” Post, at (opinion concurring in judgment). As he ex- plains in the principal concurrence, our normal method of construing statutes identifes which wetlands the Clean Water Act covers—and the answer provided exceeds what the Court says today. Because the Act covers “the waters of the United States,” and those waters “includ[e]” all wet- lands “adjacent” to other covered waters, the Act extends to those “adjacent” wetlands. U. S. C. §§ (), (g)(). And in ordinary language, one thing is adjacent to another not only when it is touching, but also when it is nearby. See post, at – (quoting multiple dictionaries). So, for ex- ample, one house is adjacent to another even when a stretch of grass and a picket fence separate the two. As applied here, that means—as the EPA and Army Corps have recog- nized for almost half a century—that a wetland comes within the Act if (i) it is “contiguous to or bordering a covered water, or (ii) if [it] is separated from a covered water only by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like.” Post, at (emphasis in original). In excluding all the wetlands in category (ii), the majority's “ `continuous surface connection' test disregards the ordinary meaning of `adjacent.' ” Post, at . The majority thus al- ters—more precisely, narrows the scope of—the statute Con- gress drafted. Cite as: U. S. () Kagan, J., concurring in judgment And make no mistake: Congress wrote the statute it meant to. The Clean Water Act was a landmark piece of environ- mental legislation, designed to address a problem of “crisis proportions.” R. Adler, J. Landman, & D. Cameron, The Clean Water Act: Years Later (). How bad was water pollution in , when the Act passed? Just a few years earlier, Ohio's Cuyahoga River had “burst into fames, fueled by oil and other industrial wastes.” Ibid. And that was merely one of many alarms. Rivers, lakes, and creeks across the country were unft for swimming. Drinking water was full of hazardous chemicals. Fish were dying in record numbers (over million in ); and those caught were often too contaminated to eat (with mercury and DDT far above safe levels). See id., at –. So Congress em- barked on what this Court once understood as a “total restructuring and complete rewriting” of existing water pollution law. Milwaukee v. Illinois, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). The new Act established “a self-consciously comprehensive” and “all- encompassing program of water pollution regulation.” Id., at –. Or said a bit differently, the Act created a program broad enough to achieve the codifed objective of “restor[ing] and maintain[ing] the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the Nation's waters.” § (a). If you've lately swum in a lake, happily drunk a glass of water straight from the tap, or sat down to a good fsh dinner, you can appreciate what the law has accomplished. Vital to the Clean Water Act's project is the protection of wetlands—both those contiguous to covered waters and oth- ers nearby. As this Court (again, formerly) recognized, wetlands “serve to flter and purify water draining into ad- jacent bodies of water, and to slow the fow of surface run- off into lakes, rivers, and streams.” United States v. River- side Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. , () (citation omitted). Wetlands thus “function as integral parts of the aquatic environment”—protecting neighboring water if Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kagan, J., concurring in judgment themselves healthy, imperiling neighboring water if instead degraded. Id., at . At the same time, wetlands play a crucial part in food control (if anything, more needed now than when the statute was enacted). And wetlands perform those functions, as Justice Kavanaugh explains, not only when they are touching a covered water but also when they are separated from it by a natural or artifcial barrier—say, a berm or dune or dike or levee. See post, at – (giving examples). Those barriers, as he says, “do not block all water fow,” and in fact are usually evidence of a signif- cant connection between the wetland and the water. Ibid. Small wonder, then, that the Act—as written, rather than as read today—covers wetlands with that kind of connection. Congress chose just the word needed to meet the Act's objec- tive. A wetland is protected when it is “adjacent” to a cov- ered water—not merely when it is “adjoining” or “contigu- ous” or “touching,” or (in the majority's favorite made-up locution) has a “continuous surface connection.” See, e. g., ante, at . Today's majority, though, believes Congress went too far. In the majority's view, the Act imposes unjustifably “crush- ing consequences” for violations of its terms. Ante, at . And many of those violations, it thinks, are of no real con- cern, arising from “mundane” land-use conduct “like moving dirt.” Ante, at . Congress, the majority scolds, has unleashed the EPA to regulate “swimming pools[ ] and puddles,” wreaking untold havoc on “a staggering array of landowners.” Ante, at , . Surely something has to be done; and who else to do it but this Court? It must res- cue property owners from Congress's too-ambitious program of pollution control. So the majority shelves the usual rules of interpretation— reading the text, determining what the words used there mean, and applying that ordinary understanding even if it conficts with judges' policy preferences. The majority's frst pass through the statute is, as Justice Kavanaugh Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kagan, J., concurring in judgment says, “unorthodox.” Post, at . “A minus B, which in- cludes C”? Ante, at . The majority could use every let- ter of the alphabet, and graduate to quadratic equations, and still not solve its essential problem. As the majority con- cedes, the statute “tells us that at least some wetlands must qualify as `waters of the United States.' ” Ibid. More, the statute tells us what those “some wetlands” are: the “adja- cent” ones. And again, as Justice Kavanaugh shows, “ad- jacent” does not mean adjoining. See post, at –; supra, at . So the majority proceeds to its back-up plan. It relies as well on a judicially manufactured clear-statement rule. When Congress (so says the majority) exercises power “over private property”—particularly, over “land and water use”—it must adopt “exceedingly clear language.” Ante, at (internal quotation marks omitted). There is, in other words, a thumb on the scale for property owners— no matter that the Act (i. e., the one Congress enacted) is all about stopping property owners from polluting. See supra, at . Even assuming that thumb's existence, the majority still would be wrong. As Justice Kavanaugh notes, clear- statement rules operate (when they operate) to resolve prob- lems of ambiguity and vagueness. See post, at ; see also Bond v. United States, U. S. , (); United States v. Bass, U. S. , (). And no such prob- lems are evident here. One last time: “Adjacent” means neighboring, whether or not touching; so, for example, a wet- land is adjacent to water on the other side of a sand dune. That congressional judgment is as clear as clear can be— which is to say, as clear as language gets. And so a clear- statement rule must leave it alone. The majority concludes otherwise because it is using its thumb not to resolve ambi- guity or clarify vagueness, but instead to “correct” breadth. Those paying attention have seen this move before—actu- ally, just last Term. In another case of environmental regu- lation (involving clean air), the Court invoked another clear- Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kagan, J., concurring in judgment statement rule (the so-called major questions doctrine) to diminish another plainly expansive term (“system of emis- sion reduction”). See West Virginia v. EPA, U. S. –––, –––, ––– (). “[C]ontra the majority,” I said then, “a broad term is not the same thing as a `vague' one.” Id., at ––– (dissenting opinion). And a court must treat the two differ- ently. A court may, on occasion, apply a clear-statement rule to deal with statutory vagueness or ambiguity. But a court may not rewrite Congress's plain instructions because they go further than preferred. That is what the majority does today in fnding that the Clean Water Act excludes many wetlands (clearly) “adjacent” to covered waters. And still more fundamentally, why ever have a thumb on the scale against the Clean Water Act's protections? The majority frst invokes federalism. See ante, at –. But as Justice Kavanaugh observes, “the Federal Govern- ment has long regulated the waters of the United States, including adjacent wetlands.” Post, at . The majority next raises the specter of criminal penalties for “indetermi- nate” conduct. See ante, at –. But there is no pecu- liar indeterminacy in saying—as regulators have said for nearly a half century—that a wetland is covered both when it touches a covered water and when it is separated by only a dike, berm, dune, or similar barrier. (That standard is in fact more defnite than a host of criminal laws I could name.) Today's pop-up clear-statement rule is explicable only as a refexive response to Congress's enactment of an ambitious scheme of environmental regulation. It is an effort to cabin the anti-pollution actions Congress thought appropriate. See ante, at (complaining about Congress's protection of “vast” and “staggering” “additional area”). And that, too, recalls last Term, when I remarked on special canons “magi- cally appearing as get-out-of-text-free cards” to stop the EPA from taking the measures Congress told it to. See West Virginia, U. S., at ––– – ––– (dissenting opinion). There, the majority's non-textualism barred the EPA from Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment addressing climate change by curbing power plant emissions in the most effective way. Here, that method prevents the EPA from keeping our country's waters clean by regulating adjacent wetlands. The vice in both instances is the same: the Court's appointment of itself as the national decision- maker on environmental policy. So I'll conclude, sadly, by repeating what I wrote last year, with the replacement of only a single word. “[T]he Court substitutes its own ideas about policymaking for Congress's. The Court will not allow the Clean [Water] Act to work as Congress instructed. The Court, rather than Congress, will decide how much regulation is too much.” Id., at –––. Because that is not how I think our Government should work—more, because it is not how the Constitution thinks our Government should work—I respectfully concur in the judgment only. Justice Kavanaugh, with whom Justice Sotomayor, Justice Kagan, and Justice Jackson join, concurring in the judgment. The Clean Water Act generally prohibits dumping dredged or fll material without a permit into the “waters of the United States.” U. S. C. §§ (a), (a), . The “waters of the United States” include wetlands that are “ad- jacent” to waters covered by the Act—for example, wetlands that are adjacent to covered rivers or lakes. §§ (g), (). The question in this case is whether the wetlands on the Sacketts' residential property are adjacent to covered waters and therefore covered under the Act. The Ninth Circuit held that the wetlands on the Sacketts' property are covered by the Clean Water Act because, as relevant here, the wetlands have a “signifcant nexus” to cov- ered waters nearby. F. th , (). The Court today reverses the Ninth Circuit's judgment. I agree with the Court's reversal of the Ninth Circuit. In particular, I agree with the Court's decision not to adopt the Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment “signifcant nexus” test for determining whether a wetland is covered under the Act. And I agree with the Court's bottom-line judgment that the wetlands on the Sacketts' property are not covered by the Act and are therefore not subject to permitting requirements. I write separately because I respectfully disagree with the Court's new test for assessing when wetlands are covered by the Clean Water Act. The Court concludes that wetlands are covered by the Act only when the wetlands have a “con- tinuous surface connection” to waters of the United States— that is, when the wetlands are “adjoining” covered waters. Ante, at , (internal quotation marks omitted). In my view, the Court's “continuous surface connection” test de- parts from the statutory text, from years of consistent agency practice, and from this Court's precedents. The Court's test narrows the Clean Water Act's coverage of “ad- jacent” wetlands to mean only “adjoining” wetlands. But “adjacent” and “adjoining” have distinct meanings: Adjoin- ing wetlands are contiguous to or bordering a covered water, whereas adjacent wetlands include both (i) those wetlands contiguous to or bordering a covered water, and (ii) wetlands separated from a covered water only by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like. By narrowing the Act's coverage of wetlands to only adjoin- ing wetlands, the Court's new test will leave some long- regulated adjacent wetlands no longer covered by the Clean Water Act, with signifcant repercussions for water quality and food control throughout the United States. Therefore, I respectfully concur only in the Court's judgment. I The Clean Water Act generally prohibits dumping a “pol- lutant”—including dredged or fll material—into “navigable waters” without a permit. U. S. C. §§ (a), (a), . The Act defnes “navigable waters” as “the waters of the United States, including the territorial seas.” § (). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment As the Court today ultimately agrees, see ante, at , and the Sacketts acknowledge, see Tr. of Oral Arg. –, –, –, the statutory term “waters of the United States” cov- ers wetlands “adjacent” to waters of the United States—for example, wetlands adjacent to a river or lake that is itself a water of the United States. U. S. C. § (g). As enacted in , the Clean Water Act protected “the waters of the United States.” §§ (a), (), (). In , the Army Corps interpreted “waters of the United States” to include wetlands “adjacent to other navigable wa- ters.” Fed. Reg. . In , Congress expressly adopted that same understanding of the Act, amending the Act to make clear that only the Federal Government, and not the States, may issue Clean Water Act permits for dumping dredged or fll material into certain “waters of the United States,” “including wetlands adjacent” to those covered wa- ters. Clean Water Act, Stat. ; U. S. C. § (g). In that Act, Congress thus expressly recognized “adja- cent wetlands” as “waters of the United States.” Interpreting the text of the Act as amended in , this Court has long held that the Act covers “adjacent” wetlands. See United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. , –, () (“Congress expressly stated that the term `waters' included adjacent wetlands”); see also Rapanos v. United States, U. S. , () (plural- ity opinion) (wetlands that “are `adjacent to' ” waters of the United States are “covered by the Act”); Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers, U. S. , , () (recognizing “Congress' unequivocal” “approval of, the Corps' regulations interpreting the [Act] to cover wetlands adjacent to navigable waters”). The Court has also ruled that the Act's coverage of adjacent wetlands does not extend to “isolated” wetlands. Id., at –. So the question here becomes the meaning of “adjacent” wetlands under the Clean Water Act. As a matter of ordi- nary meaning and longstanding agency practice, a wetland is Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment “adjacent” to a covered water (i) if the wetland is adjoining— that is, contiguous to or bordering—a covered water—or (ii) if the wetland is separated from a covered water only by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like. The Court and I agree that wetlands in the frst cate- gory—that is, wetlands adjoining a covered water—are cov- ered as adjacent wetlands. Ante, at –. But the Court and I disagree about the second category—that is, wetlands separated from a covered water only by a man- made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like. The Court concludes that wetlands in that second cate- gory are not covered as adjacent wetlands because those wetlands do not have a continuous surface connection to a covered water—in other words, those wetlands are not ad- joining the covered water. I disagree because the statutory text (“adjacent”) does not require a continuous surface con- nection between those wetlands and covered waters. The ordinary meaning of the term “adjacent” has not changed since Congress amended the Clean Water Act in to expressly cover “wetlands adjacent” to waters of the United States. Stat. ; U. S. C. § (g). Then as now, “adjacent” means lying near or close to, neighboring, or not widely separated. Indeed, the defnitions of “adjacent” are notably explicit that two things need not touch each other in order to be adjacent. “Adjacent” includes “adjoin- ing” but is not limited to “adjoining.” See, e. g., Black's Law Dictionary (rev. th ed. ) (defning “adjacent” as “Lying near or close to; sometimes, contiguous; neighboring; . . . may not actually touch”); Black's Law Dictionary (th ed. ) (defning “adjacent” as “Lying near or close to, but not necessarily touching”); see also, e. g., Webster's Third New International Dictionary () (defning “adjacent” as “to lie near, border on”; “not distant or far off”; “nearby but not touching”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment By contrast to the Clean Water Act's express inclusion of “adjacent” wetlands, other provisions of the Act use the nar- rower term “adjoining.” Compare U. S. C. § (g) with §§ (b)–(c) (“adjoining shorelines” and “adjoining shore- lines to the navigable waters”); § (c) (“land adjoining the coastal recreation waters”); see also § (n)() (“estuary” includes certain bodies of water “having unimpaired natural connection with open sea”); § () (“ `coastal waters' ” in- cludes wetlands “having unimpaired connection with the open sea up to the head of tidal infuence”). The difference in those two terms is critical to this case. Two objects are “adjoining” if they “are so joined or united to each other that no third object intervenes.” Black's (comparing “adjacent” with “adjoining”); see ibid. (“Adjoining” means “touching or contiguous, as distinguished from lying near to or adjacent”); see also Black's Law Dictionary – (th ed. ) (same); Webster's Third – (similar). As applied to wetlands, a marsh is adjacent to a river even if separated by a levee, just as your neighbor's house is adjacent to your house even if separated by a fence or an alley. In other contexts, this Court has recognized the important difference in the meaning of the terms “adjacent” and “ad- joining” and has held that “adjacent” is broader than “adjoin- ing or actually contiguous.” United States v. St. Anthony R. Co., U. S. , (). As an example, the St. An- thony case concerned a federal statute granting railroads the right to cut timber from “public lands adjacent” to a railroad right of way. Id., at , n. , . The Court held that timber could be taken from “adjacent” sections of land that were not “contiguous to or actually touching” the right of way. Id., at . The Court explained that if “the word `adjoining' had been used instead of `adjacent,' ” a railroad could not have taken the relevant timber. Ibid. In short, the term “adjacent” is broader than “adjoining” and does not require that two objects actually touch. We Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment must presume that Congress used the term “adjacent” wet- lands in to convey a different meaning than “adjoining” wetlands. See Russello v. United States, U. S. , (). II Longstanding agency practice reinforces the ordinary meaning of adjacency and demonstrates, contrary to the Court's conclusion today, that the term “adjacent” is broader than “adjoining.” After the Act was passed in , a key question quickly arose: Did “waters of the United States” include wetlands? By , the Army Corps concluded that the term “waters of the United States” included “adjacent” wetlands. Fed. Reg. . In , Congress itself made clear that “adja- cent” wetlands were covered by the Act by amending the Act and enacting § (g). Stat. . Since , when Congress explicitly included “adjacent” wetlands within the Act's coverage, the Army Corps has adopted a variety of interpretations of its authority over those wetlands—some more expansive and others less ex- pansive. But throughout those years and across all eight Presidential administrations, the Army Corps has always in- cluded in the defnition of “adjacent wetlands” not only wet- lands adjoining covered waters but also those wetlands that are separated from covered waters by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like. • In and , under President Carter, the Army Corps and EPA defned “adjacent” wetlands as including wetlands “separated from other waters of the United States by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes and the like.” Fed. Reg. ; see Fed. Reg. . • In , under President Reagan, the Army Corps adopted a new regulatory provision defning “waters of the United States” and reaffrmed that “adjacent” wet- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment lands include wetlands “separated from other waters of the United States by man-made dikes or barriers, natu- ral river berms, beach dunes and the like.” Fed. Reg. , . • From until , under Presidents Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, and Obama, the regulations continued to cover wetlands “separated from other waters of the United States by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes and the like.” See CFR § .(c) (); CFR § .(b) (); CFR § .(c) (); CFR § .(b) (); CFR § .(c) (); CFR § .(b) (); CFR § .(c) (); CFR § .(b) (). • In , under President Obama, the Army Corps and EPA promulgated a new rule, which again specifed that “adjacent” wetlands include wetlands “separated by con- structed dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes, and the like.” Fed. Reg. , . • In and , under President Trump, the Army Corps and EPA repealed the rule and issued a new rule. But even following the repeal and new rule, adja- cent wetlands included wetlands that are “physically separated” from certain covered waters “only by a natu- ral berm, bank, dune, or similar natural feature” or “only by an artifcial dike, barrier, or similar artifcial struc- ture so long as that structure allows for a direct hydro- logic surface connection . . . in a typical year, such as through a culvert, food or tide gate, pump, or similar artifcial feature.” Fed. Reg. , (). • In , under President Biden, the Army Corps and EPA once again issued a new rule that defned “adja- cent” wetlands to include wetlands “separated from other waters of the United States by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes, and the like.” Fed. Reg. –. Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment That longstanding and consistent agency interpretation re- fects and reinforces the ordinary meaning of the statute. The eight administrations since have maintained dra- matically different views of how to regulate the environ- ment, including under the Clean Water Act. Some of those administrations promulgated very broad interpretations of adjacent wetlands. Others adopted far narrower interpre- tations. Yet all of those eight different administrations have recognized as a matter of law that the Clean Water Act's coverage of adjacent wetlands means more than adjoin- ing wetlands and also includes wetlands separated from cov- ered waters by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes, or the like. That consistency in inter- pretation is strong confrmation of the ordinary meaning of adjacent wetlands. III The Act covers “adjacent” wetlands. And adjacent wet- lands is a broader category than adjoining wetlands. But instead of adhering to the ordinary meaning of “adjacent” wetlands, to the years of consistent agency practice, and to this Court's precedents, the Court today adopts a test under which a wetland is covered only if the wetland has a “continuous surface connection” to a covered water—in other words, if it adjoins a covered water. Ante, at (internal quotation marks omitted). The Court says that the wetland and the covered water must be “indistinguishable” from one another—in other words, there must be no “clear demarca- tion” between wetlands and covered waters. Ante, at (internal quotation marks omitted). The Court's “continuous surface connection” test disre- gards the ordinary meaning of “adjacent.” The Court's mis- take is straightforward: The Court essentially reads “adja- cent” to mean “adjoining.” As a result, the Court excludes wetlands that the text of the Clean Water Act covers— and that the Act since has always been interpreted to cover. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment In support of its narrower “continuous surface connection” interpretation of covered wetlands, the Court emphasizes that the Act's overarching statutory term is “waters of the United States.” Ante, at . And the Court suggests that the term “waters of the United States” cannot be inter- preted to cover “adjacent wetlands” but only “adjoining wet- lands.” See ante, at –. But in , Congress itself expressly made clear that the “waters of the United States” include “adjacent” wetlands. Stat. . And Congress would not have used the word “adjacent” in if Congress actually meant “adjoining,” particularly because Congress used the word “adjoining” in several other places in the Clean Water Act. U. S. C. §§ (b)–(c), (c); see also §§ (n)(), (). To bolster its unorthodox statutory interpretation, the Court resorts to a formula: “A minus B, which includes C.” Ante, at . That just seems to be a fancier way of arguing (against all indications of ordinary meaning) that “adjacent” means “adjoining.” But again the Court is imposing a re- striction nowhere to be found in the text. In the end, the Court has no good answer for why Congress used the term “adjacent” instead of “adjoining” when Congress enacted § (g) in . Recall again how the Act came about. In , the Army Corps concluded that the Act's coverage of “wa- ters of the United States” included “adjacent” wetlands. Fed. Reg. . Then in , Congress adopted a new permitting program for a category of “waters of the United States.” Congress allocated to the Federal Government ex- clusive authority to issue Clean Water Act permits for dump- Perhaps recognizing the diffculty of reading the Act to mean “adjoin- ing” when it actually says “adjacent,” the Court at one point suggests that “adjoining” is equivalent to “adjacent.” Ante, at . As a matter of ordinary meaning, as explained at length above, that is incorrect. Adjoin- ing wetlands are a subset of adjacent wetlands, not the whole set of adja- cent wetlands. Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment ing dredged or fll material into certain “waters of the United States,” “including wetlands adjacent thereto.” Stat. . Through that statutory text, Congress made clear its understanding that “waters of the United States” included “adjacent” wetlands—and indeed, Congress designed im- portant federal-state permitting authorities around that pre- cise understanding. Congress's amendment did not “merely” express “an opinion” about the meaning of the Clean Water Act; rather, it refected what Congress under- stood “its own prior acts to mean.” Bell v. New Jersey, U. S. , , n. () (internal quotation marks omitted). Moreover, Congress's decision was no accident. As this Court has previously recognized, “the scope of the Corps' asserted jurisdiction over wetlands”—including the Corps' decision to cover adjacent wetlands—“was specifcally brought to Congress' attention” in , “and Congress re- jected measures designed to curb the Corps' jurisdiction.” United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. , (). Subsequently, this Court has recognized that Congress's amendment made clear that the Act “cover[s] wetlands adjacent to navigable waters.” Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of En- gineers, U. S. , (); see Riverside Bayview, U. S., at (“Congress expressly stated that the term `wa- ters' included adjacent wetlands”). Not surprisingly, in the years since , no one has seri- ously disputed that the Act covers adjacent wetlands. And in light of the text of the Act, eight consecutive Presidential administrations have recognized that the Act covers adjacent wetlands and that adjacent wetlands include more than sim- ply adjoining wetlands. The Court's analysis today there- fore seems stuck in a bit of a time warp—relitigating an issue that Congress settled in and that this Court has long treated as settled: The Act covers adjacent wetlands. By Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment adopting a test that substitutes “adjoining” for “adjacent,” the Court today errs. The Court also invokes federalism and vagueness con- cerns. The Court suggests that ambiguities or vagueness in federal statutes regulating private property should be construed in favor of the property owner, particularly given that States have traditionally regulated private property rights. See ante, at –; see also Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty., U. S., at –. To begin with, the Federal Government has long regulated the waters of the United States, including adjacent wetlands. In any event, the decisive point here is that the term “ad- jacent” in this statute is unambiguously broader than the term “adjoining.” On that critical interpretive question, there is no ambiguity. We should not create ambiguity where none exists. And we may not rewrite “adjacent” to mean the same thing as “adjoining,” as the Court does today. Finally, contrary to the Court's suggestion otherwise, the analysis in this separate opinion centers on the “operative” text, “waters of the United States.” Ante, at –. To recap: The Act covered “waters of the United States.” In , when Congress allocated permitting authority, Con- gress expressly included “adjacent” wetlands within the “waters of the United States.” Since then, the Executive Branch and this Court have recognized that “waters of the United States” covers “adjacent” wetlands. Based on the text of the statute, as well as years of consistent agency practice and this Court's precedents, I respectfully disagree with the Court's decision to interpret “waters of the United States” to include only adjoining wetlands and not adjacent wetlands. IV The difference between “adjacent” and “adjoining” in this context is not merely semantic or academic. The Court's rewriting of “adjacent” to mean “adjoining” will matter a Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment great deal in the real world. In particular, the Court's new and overly narrow test may leave long-regulated and long- accepted-to-be-regulable wetlands suddenly beyond the scope of the agencies' regulatory authority, with negative consequences for waters of the United States. For example, the Mississippi River features an extensive levee system to prevent fooding. Under the Court's “continuous surface connection” test, the presence of those levees (the equivalent of a dike) would seemingly preclude Clean Water Act cover- age of adjacent wetlands on the other side of the levees, even though the adjacent wetlands are often an important part of the food-control project. See Brief for Respondents . Likewise, federal protection of the Chesapeake Bay might be less effective if fll can be dumped into wetlands that are adjacent to (but not adjoining) the bay and its covered tribu- taries. See id., at . Those are just two of many examples of how the Court's overly narrow view of the Clean Water Act will have concrete impact. As those examples reveal, there is a good reason why Con- gress covered not only adjoining wetlands but also adjacent wetlands. Because of the movement of water between adja- cent wetlands and other waters, pollutants in wetlands often end up in adjacent rivers, lakes, and other waters. Natural barriers such as berms and dunes do not block all water fow and are in fact evidence of a regular connection between a water and a wetland. Fed. Reg. ; Fed. Reg. , . Similarly, artifcial barriers such as dikes and levees typically do not block all water fow, Fed. Reg. ; Fed. Reg. , and those artifcial structures were often built to control the surface water connection between the wetland and the water. Fed. Reg. ; Fed. Reg. . The scientifc evidence overwhelmingly demonstrates that wetlands separated from covered waters by those kinds of berms or barriers, for example, still play an important role in protecting neighboring and downstream waters, including by fltering pollutants, storing water, and providing food Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment control. See Fed. Reg. ; CFR § .(b)() (); see also United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., U. S. , (). In short, those adjacent wetlands may affect downstream water quality and food control in many of the same ways that adjoining wetlands can. The Court's erroneous test not only will create real-world consequences for the waters of the United States, but also is suffciently novel and vague (at least as a single standalone test) that it may create regulatory uncertainty for the Fed- eral Government, the States, and regulated parties. As the Federal Government suggests, the continuous surface con- nection test raises “a host of thorny questions” and will lead to “potentially arbitrary results.” Brief for Respondents . For example, how diffcult does it have to be to discern the boundary between a water and a wetland for the wetland to be covered by the Clean Water Act? How does that test apply to the many kinds of wetlands that typically do not have a surface water connection to a covered water year- round—for example, wetlands and waters that are connected for much of the year but not in the summer when they dry up to some extent? How “temporary” do “interruptions in surface connection” have to be for wetlands to still be cov- ered? Ante, at . How does the test operate in areas where storms, foods, and erosion frequently shift or breach natural river berms? Can a continuous surface connection be established by a ditch, swale, pipe, or culvert? See Fed. Reg. . The Court covers wetlands separated from a water by an artifcial barrier constructed illegally, see ante, at , n. , but why not also include barriers author- ized by the Army Corps at a time when it would not have known that the barrier would cut off federal authority? The list goes on. Put simply, the Court's atextual test—rewriting “adja- cent” to mean “adjoining”—will produce real-world conse- quences for the waters of the United States and will gen- erate regulatory uncertainty. I would stick to the text. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication SACKETT v. EPA Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment There can be no debate, in my respectful view, that the key statutory term is “adjacent” and that adjacent wetlands is a broader category than adjoining wetlands. To be faithful to the statutory text, we cannot interpret “adjacent” wetlands to be the same thing as “adjoining” wetlands. * * * In sum, I agree with the Court's decision not to adopt the “signifcant nexus” test for adjacent wetlands. I respect- fully disagree, however, with the Court's new “continuous surface connection” test. In my view, the Court's new test is overly narrow and inconsistent with the Act's coverage of adjacent wetlands. The Act covers adjacent wetlands, and a wetland is “adjacent” to a covered water (i) if the wetland is contiguous to or bordering a covered water, or (ii) if the wetland is separated from a covered water only by a man- made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like. The wetlands on the Sacketts' property do not fall into either of those categories and therefore are not covered under the Act as I would interpret it. Therefore, like the Court, I would reverse the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and remand for further pro- ceedings. But I respectfully concur only in the Court's judgment. Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: p. , line , “§ .(b)” is changed to “§ .(b)” p. , line from bottom, “Id., at , n. .” is inserted after §() p. , line , “Appropriations” is inserted after “Harbors” p. , line , “regulatory” is changed to “[regulatory]” p. , line, “authority” is changed to “power” p. , line from bottom, “economically gainful” is changed to “economic or gainful” p. , n. , line , “included” is changed to “include”