PRELIMINARY PRINT Volume U. S. Part Pages – OFFICIAL REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT June , REBECCA A. WOMELDORF reporter of decisions Page Proof Pending Publication NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. , pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors. Page Proof Pending Publication OCTOBER TERM, Syllabus HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, et al. v. BRACKEEN et al. certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fth circuit No. –. Argued November , —Decided June , * This case arises from three separate child custody proceedings governed by the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), a federal statute that aims to keep Indian children connected to Indian families. ICWA governs state-court adoption and foster care proceedings involving Indian chil- dren. Among other things, the Act requires placement of an Indian child according to the Act's hierarchical preferences, unless the state court fnds “good cause” to depart from them. U. S. C. §§ (a), (b). Under those preferences, Indian families or institutions from any tribe (not just the tribe to which the child has a tie) outrank unrelated non-Indians or non-Indian institutions. Further, the child's tribe may pass a resolution altering the prioritization order. § (c). The pref- erences of the Indian child or her parent generally cannot trump those set by statute or tribal resolution. In involuntary proceedings, the Act mandates that the Indian child's parent or custodian and tribe be given notice of any custody proceed- ings, as well as the right to intervene. §§ (a), (b), (c). Section (d) requires a party seeking to terminate parental rights or to re- move an Indian child from an unsafe environment to “satisfy the court that active efforts have been made to provide remedial services and rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the Indian family,” and a court cannot order relief unless the party demonstrates, by a heightened burden of proof and expert testimony, that the child is likely to suffer “serious emotional or physical damage” if the parent or Indian custodian retains custody. §§ (d), (e). Even for voluntary proceedings, a biological parent who gives up an Indian child cannot necessarily choose the child's foster or adoptive parents. The child's tribe has “a right to intervene at any point in [a] proceeding” to place a child in foster care or terminate parental rights, as well as a right to collaterally attack the state court's custody decree. §§ (c), . *Together with No. –, Cherokee Nation et al. v. Brackeen et al., No. –, Texas v. Haaland, Secretary of the Interior, et al., and No. –, Brackeen et al. v. Haaland, Secretary of the Interior, et al., also on certiorari to the same court. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Syllabus The tribe thus can sometimes enforce ICWA's placement preferences against the wishes of one or both biological parents, even after the child is living with a new family. Finally, the States must keep certain rec- ords related to child placements, see § (e), and transmit to the Secre- tary of the Interior all fnal adoption decrees and other specifed infor- mation, see § (a). Petitioners—a birth mother, foster and adoptive parents, and the State of Texas—fled this suit in federal court against the United States and other federal parties. Several Indian Tribes intervened to defend the law alongside the federal parties. Petitioners challenged ICWA as unconstitutional on multiple grounds. They asserted that Congress lacks authority to enact ICWA and that several of ICWA's requirements violate the anticommandeering principle of the Tenth Amendment. They argued that ICWA employs racial classifcations that unlawfully hinder non-Indian families from fostering or adopting Indian children. And they challenged § (c)—the provision that allows tribes to alter the prioritization order—on the ground that it violates the nondelega- tion doctrine. The District Court granted petitioners' motion for summary judgment on their constitutional claims, and the en banc Fifth Circuit affrmed in part and reversed in part. The Fifth Circuit concluded that ICWA does not exceed Congress's legislative power, that § (c) does not violate the nondelegation doctrine, and that some of ICWA's placement prefer- ences satisfy the guarantee of equal protection. The Fifth Circuit was evenly divided as to whether ICWA's other preferences—those prioritiz- ing “other Indian families” and “Indian foster home[s]” over non-Indian families—unconstitutionally discriminate on the basis of race, and thus affrmed the District Court's ruling that these preferences are unconsti- tutional. As to petitioners' Tenth Amendment arguments, the Fifth Circuit held that § (d)'s “active efforts” requirement, § (e)'s and §(f)'s expert witness requirements, and §(e)'s recordkeeping requirement unconstitutionally commandeer the States. And because it divided evenly with respect to other challenged provisions (§ (a)'s notice requirement, § (a) and § (b)'s placement preferences, and § (a)'s recordkeeping requirement), the Fifth Circuit affrmed the District Court's holding that these requirements violate the Tenth Amendment. Held: . The Court declines to disturb the Fifth Circuit's conclusion that ICWA is consistent with Congress's Article I authority. Pp. –. (a) The Court has characterized Congress's power to legislate with respect to the Indian tribes as “plenary and exclusive,” United States v. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus Lara, U. S. , , superseding both tribal and state authority, Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, U. S. , . The Court has traced that power to multiple sources. First, the Indian Commerce Clause authorizes Congress “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes,” U. S. Const., Art. I, § , cl. , and the Court has interpreted the Indian Commerce Clause to reach not only trade, but also certain “In- dian affairs,” Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, U. S. , . The Treaty Clause provides a second source of power. The treaty power “does not literally authorize Congress to act legislatively,” since it is housed in Article II, but “treaties made pursuant to that power can authorize Congress to deal with `matters' with which otherwise `Con- gress could not deal.' ” Lara, U. S., at . Also, principles inher- ent in the Constitution's structure may empower Congress to act in the feld of Indian affairs. See Morton v. Mancari, U. S. , –. Finally, the “trust relationship between the United States and the In- dian people” informs the exercise of legislative power. United States v. Mitchell, U. S. , –. In sum, Congress's power to legis- late with respect to Indians is well established and broad, but it is not unbounded. It is plenary within its sphere, but even a sizeable sphere has borders. Pp. –. (b) Petitioners contend that ICWA impermissibly treads on the States' traditional authority over family law. But when Congress val- idly legislates pursuant to its Article I powers, the Court “has not hesi- tated” to fnd conficting state family law preempted, “[n]otwithstanding the limited application of federal law in the feld of domestic relations generally.” Ridgway v. Ridgway, U. S. , . And the Court has recognized Congress's power to displace the jurisdiction of state courts in adoption proceedings involving Indian children. Fisher v. District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., U. S. , (per cu- riam). Pp. –. (c) Petitioners contend that no source of congressional authority authorizes Congress to regulate custody proceedings for Indian chil- dren. They suggest that the Indian Commerce Clause, for example, authorizes Congress to legislate only with respect to Indian tribes as government entities, not Indians as individuals. But this Court's hold- ing more than a century ago that “commerce with the Indian tribes, means commerce with the individuals composing those tribes,” United States v. Holliday, Wall. , , renders that argument a dead end. Petitioners also assert that ICWA takes the “commerce” out of the In- dian Commerce Clause because “children are not commodities that can be traded.” Brief for Individual Petitioners . This point, while rhe- torically powerful, ignores the Court's precedent interpreting the Indian Commerce Clause to encompass not only trade but also other Indian Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Syllabus affairs. Petitioners next argue that ICWA cannot be authorized by principles inherent in the Constitution's structure because those princi- ples “extend, at most, to matters of war and peace.” Brief for Peti- tioner Texas . Again, petitioners make no argument that takes this Court's cases on their own terms. The Court has referred generally to the powers “necessarily inherent in any Federal Government” and has offered nonmilitary examples, such as “creating departments of Indian affairs.” Lara, U. S., at –. Petitioners next observe that ICWA does not implement a federal treaty, but Congress did not pur- port to enact ICWA pursuant to its treaty power and the Fifth Circuit did not uphold ICWA on that rationale. Finally, petitioners turn to criticizing this Court's precedent as inconsistent with the Constitution's original meaning, but they neither ask the Court to overrule the prece- dent they criticize nor try to reconcile their approach with it. If there are arguments that ICWA exceeds Congress's authority as precedent stands today, petitioners do not make them here. Pp. –. . Petitioners' anticommandeering challenges, which address three categories of ICWA provisions, are rejected. Pp. –. (a) First, petitioners challenge certain requirements that apply in involuntary proceedings to place a child in foster care or terminate pa- rental rights, focusing on the requirement that an initiating party dem- onstrate “active efforts” to keep the Indian family together. § (d). Petitioners contend this subsection directs state and local agencies to provide extensive services to the parents of Indian children, even though it is well established that the Tenth Amendment bars Congress from “command[ing] the States' offcers, or those of their political subdi- visions, to administer or enforce a federal regulatory program.” Printz v. United States, U. S. , . To succeed, petitioners must show that § (d) harnesses a State's legislative or executive authority. But the provision applies to “[a]ny party” who initiates an involuntary proceeding, thus sweeping in private individuals and agencies as well as government entities. A demand that either public or private actors can satisfy is unlikely to require the use of sovereign power. Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., U. S. –––, ––– – –––. Petition- ers nonetheless insist that States institute the vast majority of involun- tary proceedings. But examples of private suits are not hard to fnd. And while petitioners treat “active efforts” as synonymous with “gov- ernment programs,” state courts have applied the “active efforts” re- quirement in private suits too. That is consistent with ICWA's fndings, which describe the role that both public and private actors played in the unjust separation of Indian children from their families and tribes. § . Given all this, it is implausible that § (d) is directed primar- ily, much less exclusively, at the States. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus Legislation that applies “evenhandedly” to state and private actors does not typically implicate the Tenth Amendment. Id., at –––. Peti- tioners would distinguish the Court's precedents so holding on the grounds that those cases addressed laws regulating a State's commer- cial activity, while ICWA regulates a State's “core sovereign function of protecting the health and safety of children within its borders.” Brief for Petitioner Texas . This argument is presumably directed at situations in which only the State can rescue a child from neglectful parents. But the State is not necessarily the only option for rescue, and § (d) applies to other types of proceedings too. Petitioners do not distinguish between these varied situations, much less isolate a do- main in which only the State can act. If there is a core of involuntary proceedings committed exclusively to the sovereign, Texas neither iden- tifes its contours nor explains what § (d) requires of a State in that context. Petitioners have therefore failed to show that the “active ef- forts” requirement commands the States to deploy their executive or legislative power to implement federal Indian policy. And as for peti- tioners' challenges to other provisions of § —the notice require- ment, expert witness requirement, and evidentiary standards—the Court doubts that requirements placed on a State as litigant implicate the Tenth Amendment. But regardless, these provisions, like § (d), apply to both private and state actors, so they too pose no anticomman- deering problem. Pp. –. (b) Petitioners next challenge ICWA's placement preferences, set forth in § . Petitioners assert that this provision orders state agen- cies to perform a “diligent search” for placements that satisfy ICWA's hierarchy. Just as Congress cannot compel state offcials to search databases to determine the lawfulness of gun sales, Printz, U. S., at –, petitioners argue, Congress cannot compel state offcials to search for a federally preferred placement. As with § , petitioners have not shown that the “diligent search” requirement, which applies to both private and public parties, demands the use of state sovereign authority. Moreover, § does not require anyone, much less the States, to search for alternative placements; instead, the burden is on the tribe or other objecting party to produce a higher-ranked placement. Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, U. S. , . So, as it stands, peti- tioners assert an anticommandeering challenge to a provision that does not command state agencies to do anything. State courts are a different matter. ICWA indisputably requires them to apply the placement preferences in making custody determina- tions. §§ (a), (b). But Congress can require state courts, unlike state executives and legislatures, to enforce federal law. See New York v. United States, U. S. , –. Petitioners draw a distinction HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Syllabus between requiring state courts to entertain federal causes of action and requiring them to apply federal law to state causes of action, but this argument runs counter to the Supremacy Clause. When Congress enacts a valid statute, “state law is naturally preempted to the extent of any confict with a federal statute.” Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, U. S. , . That a federal law modifes a state- law cause of action does not limit its preemptive effect. See, e. g., Hill- man v. Maretta, U. S. , – (federal law establishing order of precedence for life insurance benefciaries preempted state law). Pp. –. (c) Finally, petitioners insist that Congress cannot force state courts to maintain or transmit records of custody proceedings involving Indian children. But the anticommandeering doctrine applies “distinc- tively” to a state court's adjudicative responsibilities. Printz, U. S., at . The Constitution allows Congress to require “state judges to enforce federal prescriptions, insofar as those prescriptions relat[e] to matters appropriate for the judicial power.” Ibid. (emphasis deleted). In Printz, the Court indicated that this principle may extend to tasks that are “ancillary” to a “quintessentially adjudicative task”—such as “recording, registering, and certifying” documents. Id., at , n. . Printz described numerous historical examples of Congress imposing recordkeeping and reporting requirements on state courts. These early congressional enactments demonstrate that the Constitution does not prohibit the Federal Government from imposing adjudicative tasks on state courts. Bowsher v. Synar, U. S. , . The Court now confrms what Printz suggested: Congress may impose ancillary record- keeping requirements related to state-court proceedings without violat- ing the Tenth Amendment. Here, ICWA's recordkeeping requirements are comparable to the historical examples. The duties ICWA imposes are “ancillary” to the state court's obligation to conduct child custody proceedings in compliance with ICWA. Printz, U. S., at , n. . Pp. –. . The Court does not reach the merits of petitioners' two additional claims—an equal protection challenge to ICWA's placement preferences and a nondelegation challenge to § (c), the provision allowing tribes to alter the placement preferences—because no party before the Court has standing to raise them. Pp. –. (a) The individual petitioners argue that ICWA's hierarchy of pref- erences injures them by placing them on unequal footing with Indian parents who seek to adopt or foster an Indian child. But the individual petitioners have not shown that this injury is “likely” to be “redressed by judicial relief.” TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, U. S. –––, –––. They seek an injunction preventing the federal parties from enforcing Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Syllabus ICWA and a declaratory judgment that the challenged provisions are unconstitutional. Yet enjoining the federal parties would not remedy the alleged injury, because state courts apply the placement preferences, and state agencies carry out the court-ordered placements. §§ (), (a), (b). The state offcials who implement ICWA are “not parties to the suit, and there is no reason they should be obliged to honor an incidental legal determination the suit produced.” Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , (plurality opinion). Petitioners' request for a declaratory judgment suffers from the same faw. The individual petitioners insist that state courts are likely to defer to a federal court's interpretation of federal law, thus giving rise to a substantial likelihood that a favorable judgment will redress their injury. But such a theory would mean redressability would be satisfed whenever a decision might persuade actors who are not before the court—contrary to Article III's strict prohibition on “issuing advisory opinions.” Carney v. Adams, U. S. –––, –––. It is a federal court's judgment, not its opinion, that remedies an injury. The individual petitioners can hope for nothing more than an opinion, so they cannot satisfy Article III. Pp. –. (b) Texas has no equal protection rights of its own, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, U. S. , , and it cannot assert equal protection claims on behalf of its citizens against the Federal Government, Alfred L. Snapp & Son, Inc. v. Puerto Rico ex rel. Barez, U. S. , , n. . The State's creative arguments for why it has standing despite these settled rules also fail. Texas's argument that ICWA requires it to “break its promise to its citizens that it will be colorblind in child- custody proceedings,” Reply Brief for Texas , is not the kind of “con- crete” and “particularized” “invasion of a legally protected interest” necessary to demonstrate an injury in fact, Lujan, U. S., at . Texas also claims a direct pocketbook injury associated with the costs of keeping records, providing notice in involuntary proceedings, and pro- ducing expert testimony before moving a child to foster care or termi- nating parental rights. But these alleged costs are not “fairly trace- able” to the placement preferences, which “operate independently” of the provisions Texas identifes. California v. Texas, U. S. –––, –––. Texas would continue to incur the complained-of costs even if it were relieved of the duty to apply the placement preferences. Because Texas is not injured by the placement preferences, neither would it be injured by a tribal resolution that altered those preferences pursuant to § (c). Texas therefore does not have standing to bring either its equal protection or its nondelegation claims. And although the individ- ual petitioners join Texas's nondelegation challenge to § (c), they raise no independent arguments about why they would have standing to bring this claim. Pp. –. HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Syllabus F. d , affrmed in part, reversed in part, vacated and remanded in part. Barrett, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Sotomayor, Kagan, Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, and Jackson, JJ., joined. Gorsuch, J., fled a concurring opinion, in which Sotomayor and Jackson, JJ., joined as to Parts I and III, post, p. . Kavanaugh, J., fled a concurring opinion, post, p. . Thomas, J., post, p. , and Alito, J., post, p. , fled dissenting opinions. Matthew D. McGill argued the cause for Chad Everet Brackeen et al. in all cases. With him on the briefs were Lochlan F. Shelfer, Aaron Smith, Ashley E. Johnson, and Mark D. Fiddler. Judd E. Stone II, Solicitor General of Texas, argued the cause for Texas. With him on the briefs in No. – were Ken Paxton, Attorney General of Texas, Brent Webster, First Assistant Attorney General, Lanora C. Pettit, Princi- pal Deputy Solicitor General, and Kathryn M. Cherry and Beth Klusmann, Assistant Solicitors General. Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause for the federal parties. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Prelogar, Assistant Attorney General Kim, Freder- ick Liu, Christopher G. Michel, Samuel C. Alexander, Amber Blaha, Rachel Heron, and Samuel R. Bagenstos. Ian Heath Gershengorn argued the cause for tribal par- ties. With him on the brief were Keith M. Harper, Matthew S. Hellman, Zachary C. Schauf, Leonard R. Powell, Kathryn E. Fort, David A. Strauss, Sarah M. Konsky, Adam H. Charnes, Rob Roy Smith, Jeffrey L. Fisher, Ephraim A. Mc- Dowell, Paul Spruhan, Louis Mallette, and Sage Metoxen.† †A brief of amicus curiae urging reversal in No. – was fled for the New Civil Liberties Alliance by Richard A. Samp, Brian Rosner, and Mark S. Chenoweth. Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in part and affrmance in part in all cases were fled for the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the Court. This case is about children who are among the most vul- nerable: those in the child welfare system. In the usual et al. by Mary Kathryn Nagle; and for Members of Congress by Alan E. Schoenfeld. A brief of amici curiae urging affrmance in all cases was fled for the American Civil Liberties Union et al. by Kathleen R. Hartnett, Adam S. Gershenson, David D. Cole, Jennesa Calvo-Friedman, Elizabeth Gill, Stephen Koteff, Jared G. Keenan, Benjamin Rundall, Zachary L. Heiden, Randy A. Bauman, and Megan Lambert. Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in part and reversal in part in all cases were fled for the State of California et al. by Rob Bonta, Attor- ney General of California, Michael J. Mongan, Solicitor General, Michael L. Newman, Senior Assistant Attorney General, Joshua Patashnik, Dep- uty Solicitor General, Nicole Welindt, Associate Deputy Solicitor General, James F. Zahradka II, Supervising Deputy Attorney General, and Chris- tina M. Riehl, Deputy Attorney General, by Matthew J. Platkin, Acting Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Mark Brnovich of Arizona, Philip J. Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Karl A. Racine of the District of Columbia, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho, Kwame Raoul of Illi- nois, Tom Miller of Iowa, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Maura Healey of Massachusetts, Dana Nessel of Michigan, Keith Ellison of Minnesota, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Letitia James of New York, Joshua H. Stein of North Carolina, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Mark A. Vargo of South Dakota, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Robert W. Fergu- son of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for the American Historical Association et al. by Z. W. Julius Chen, Pratik A. Shah, and Amanda L. WhiteEagle; for the Citizens Equal Rights Foundation by Lawrence A. Kogan; and for the Project on Fair Representation by J. Michael Connolly and Cameron T. Norris. Briefs of amici curiae were fled in all cases for the State of Ohio et al. by Dave Yost, Attorney General of Ohio, Benjamin M. Flowers, Solicitor General, Michael J. Hendershot, Chief Deputy Solicitor General, and Zachery Keller and Sylvia May Mailman, Deputy Solicitors General, and by John M. O'Connor, Attorney General of Oklahoma; for Los Angeles County by Kim Nemoy and Melania Vartanian; for the Academy of Adop- tion and Assisted Reproduction Attorneys et al. by Larry S. Jenkins, Philip J. McCarthy, Jr., Mary Beck, and Laura Beck Wilkinson; for Administra- Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court course, state courts apply state law when placing children in foster or adoptive homes. But when the child is an Indian, a federal statute—the Indian Child Welfare Act—governs. Among other things, this law requires a state court to place an Indian child with an Indian caretaker, if one is available. That is so even if the child is already living with a non-Indian family and the state court thinks it in the child's best interest to stay there. Before us, a birth mother, foster and adoptive parents, and the State of Texas challenge the Act on multiple constitu- tional grounds. They argue that it exceeds federal author- ity, infringes state sovereignty, and discriminates on the basis of race. The United States, joined by several Indian Tribes, defends the law. The issues are complicated—so for the details, read on. But the bottom line is that we reject all of petitioners' challenges to the statute, some on the mer- its and others for lack of standing. tive Law Professors et al. by David S. Coale; for the American Academy of Pediatrics et al. by Keith Bradley; for the American Bar Association by Geoffrey D. Strommer, Deborah Enix-Ross, Caroline P. Mayhew, Kaitlyn E. Klass, and Gregory A. Smith; for the American Psychological Associa- tion et al. by Beth S. Brinkmann, Daniel G. Randolph, and Deanne M. Ottaviano; for Casey Family Programs et al. by Hyland Hunt, Ruthanne M. Deutsch, Alexandra Mansbach, and Martin Guggenheim; for the Christian Alliance for Indian Child Welfare et al. by Krystal B. Swendsboe and Stephen J. Obermeier; for the Constitutional Accountability Center by Elizabeth B. Wydra and Brianne J. Gorod; for Family Defense Providers by Charles A. Rothfeld; for Former Foster Children by Rebecca A. Patter- son, Colin C. Hampson, and Frank S. Holleman IV; for Foster Parents et al. by Oliver J. Dunford, Jeremy Talcott, Daniel Ortner, and Aditya Dynar; for the Goldwater Institute et al. by Timothy Sandefur and Robert Henneke; for Indian Law Professors by April Youpee-Roll and Matthew L. M. Fletcher; for the National Association of Counsel for Children et al. by Kathryn A. Eidmann, Tara Ford, and Kim Dvorchak; for Gregory Ablavsky by Michelle T. Miano; for Sen. James Abourezk by Daniel P. Sheehan; for Robyn Bradshaw by Conor D. Tucker, Steffen N. Johnson, and Shannon E. Smith; for Aubrey Nelson et al. by April E. Olson and Glennas'ba Augborne Arents; and for Indian Tribes et al. by John E. Echohawk, Erin C. Doughtery Lynch, and Samuel F. Daughety. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court I A In , Congress enacted the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) out of concern that “an alarmingly high percentage of Indian families are broken up by the removal, often un- warranted, of their children from them by nontribal public and private agencies.” Stat. , U. S. C. § (). Congress found that many of these children were being “placed in non-Indian foster and adoptive homes and institu- tions,” and that the States had contributed to the problem by “fail[ing] to recognize the essential tribal relations of Indian people and the cultural and social standards prevailing in Indian communities and families.” §§ (), (). This harmed not only Indian parents and children, but also Indian tribes. As Congress put it, “there is no resource that is more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian tribes than their children.” § (). Testifying before Congress, the Tribal Chief of the Mississippi Band of Choc- taw Indians was blunter: “Culturally, the chances of Indian survival are signifcantly reduced if our children, the only real means for the transmission of the tribal heritage, are to be raised in non-Indian homes and denied exposure to the ways of their People.” Hearings on S. before the Sub- committee on Indian Affairs and Public Lands of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, th Cong., d Sess., (). The Act thus aims to keep Indian children connected to Indian families. “Indian child” is defned broadly to include not only a child who is “a member of an Indian tribe,” but also one who is “eligible for membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a member of an Indian tribe.” § (). If the Indian child lives on a reservation, ICWA grants the tribal court exclusive jurisdiction over all child custody proceedings, including adoptions and foster care pro- ceedings. § (a). For other Indian children, state and Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court tribal courts exercise concurrent jurisdiction, although the state court is sometimes required to transfer the case to tribal court. § (b). When a state court adjudicates the proceeding, ICWA governs from start to fnish. That is true regardless of whether the proceeding is “involuntary” (one to which the parents do not consent) or “voluntary” (one to which they do). Involuntary proceedings are subject to especially strin- gent safeguards. See CFR § . (); Fed. Reg. – (). Any party who initiates an “involun- tary proceeding” in state court to place an Indian child in foster care or terminate parental rights must “notify the parent or Indian custodian and the Indian child's tribe.” § (a). The parent or custodian and tribe have the right to intervene in the proceedings; the right to request extra time to prepare for the proceedings; the right to “examine all reports or other documents fled with the court”; and, for indigent parents or custodians, the right to court-appointed counsel. §§ (a), (b), (c). The party attempting to termi- nate parental rights or remove an Indian child from an un- safe environment must frst “satisfy the court that active ef- forts have been made to provide remedial services and rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the Indian family and that these efforts have proved unsuc- cessful.” § (d). Even then, the court cannot order a foster care placement unless it fnds “by clear and convincing evidence, including testimony of qualifed expert witnesses, that the continued custody of the child by the parent or In- dian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or phys- ical damage to the child.” §(e). To terminate parental rights, the court must make the same fnding “beyond a rea- sonable doubt.” §(f). The Act applies to voluntary proceedings too. Relin- quishing a child temporarily (to foster care) or permanently (to adoption) is a grave act, and a state court must ensure that a consenting parent or custodian knows and understands Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court “the terms and consequences.” § (a). Notably, a bio- logical parent who voluntarily gives up an Indian child can- not necessarily choose the child's foster or adoptive parents. The child's tribe has “a right to intervene at any point in [a] proceeding” to place a child in foster care or terminate pa- rental rights, as well as a right to collaterally attack the state court's decree. §§ (c), . As a result, the tribe can sometimes enforce ICWA's placement preferences against the wishes of one or both biological parents, even after the child is living with a new family. See Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfeld, U. S. , – (). ICWA's placement preferences, which apply to all custody proceedings involving Indian children, are hierarchical: State courts may only place the child with someone in a lower- ranked group when there is no available placement in a higher-ranked group. For adoption, “a preference shall be given” to placements with “() a member of the child's ex- tended family; () other members of the Indian child's tribe; or () other Indian families.” §(a). For foster care, a preference is given to () “the Indian child's extended fam- ily”; () “a foster home licensed, approved, or specifed by the Indian child's tribe”; () “an Indian foster home licensed or approved by an authorized non-Indian licensing authority”; and then () another institution “approved by an Indian tribe or operated by an Indian organization which has a program suitable to meet the Indian child's needs.” § (b). For purposes of the placement preferences, an “Indian” is “any person who is a member of an Indian tribe,” and an “Indian organization” is “any group . . . owned or controlled by Indi- ans.” §§ (), (). Together, these defnitions mean that Indians from any tribe (not just the tribe to which the child has a tie) outrank unrelated non-Indians for both adoption and foster care. And for foster care, institutions run or approved by any tribe outrank placements with unrelated non-Indian families. Courts must adhere to the placement HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court preferences absent “good cause” to depart from them. §§ (a), (b). The child's tribe may pass a resolution altering the priori- tization order. §(c). If it does, “the agency or court effecting the placement shall follow such order so long as the placement is the least restrictive setting appropriate to the particular needs of the child.” Ibid. So long as the “least restrictive setting” condition is met, the preferences of the Indian child or her parent cannot trump those set by statute or tribal resolution. But, “[w]here appropriate, the prefer- ence of the Indian child or parent shall be considered” in making a placement. Ibid. The State must record each placement, including a descrip- tion of the efforts made to comply with ICWA's order of pref- erences. § (e). Both the Secretary of the Interior and the child's tribe have the right to request the record at any time. Ibid. State courts must also transmit all fnal adop- tion decrees and specifed information about adoption pro- ceedings to the Secretary. § (a). B This case arises from three separate child custody pro- ceedings governed by ICWA. A. L. M. was placed in foster care with Chad and Jennifer Brackeen when he was months old. Because his biologi- cal mother is a member of the Navajo Nation and his biologi- cal father is a member of the Cherokee Nation, he falls within ICWA's defnition of an “Indian child.” Both the Brackeens and A. L. M.'s biological parents live in Texas. After A. L. M. had lived with the Brackeens for more than a year, they sought to adopt him. A. L. M.'s biological mother, father, and grandmother all supported the adoption. The Navajo and Cherokee Nations did not. Pursuant to an Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court agreement between the Tribes, the Navajo Nation desig- nated A. L. M. as a member and informed the state court that it had located a potential alternative placement with non- relative tribal members living in New Mexico. ICWA's place- ment preferences ranked the proposed Navajo family ahead of non-Indian families like the Brackeens. See § (a). The Brackeens tried to convince the state court that there was “good cause” to deviate from ICWA's preferences. They presented favorable testimony from A. L. M.'s court- appointed guardian and from a psychological expert who de- scribed the strong emotional bond between A. L. M. and his foster parents. A. L. M.'s biological parents and grand- mother also testifed, urging the court to allow A. L. M. to remain with the Brackeens, “ `the only parents [A. L. M.] knows.' ” App. . The court denied the adoption petition, and the Texas De- partment of Family and Protective Services announced its intention to move A. L. M. from the Brackeens' home to New Mexico. In response, the Brackeens obtained an emergency stay of the transfer and fled this lawsuit. The Navajo fam- ily then withdrew from consideration, and the Brackeens f- nalized their adoption of A. L. M. The Brackeens now seek to adopt A. L. M.'s biological sis- ter, Y. R. J., again over the opposition of the Navajo Nation. And while the Brackeens hope to foster and adopt other In- dian children in the future, their fraught experience with A. L. M.'s adoption makes them hesitant to do so. Altagracia Hernandez chose Nick and Heather Libretti as adoptive parents for her newborn daughter, Baby O. The Librettis took Baby O. home from the hospital when she was three days old, and Hernandez, who lived nearby, visited- Baby O. frequently. Baby O.'s biological father visited only once but supported the adoption. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court Hernandez is not an Indian. But Baby O.'s biological fa- ther is descended from members of the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo Tribe, and the Tribe enrolled Baby O. as a member. As a result, the adoption proceeding was governed by ICWA. The Tribe exercised its right to intervene and argued, over Hernandez's objection, that Baby O. should be moved from the Librettis' home in Nevada to the Tribe's reservation in El Paso, Texas. It presented a number of potential place- ments on the reservation for Baby O., and state offcials began to investigate them. After Hernandez and the Li- brettis joined this lawsuit, however, the Tribe withdrew its challenge to the adoption, and the Librettis fnalized their adoption of Baby O. The Librettis stayed in the litigation because they planned to foster and possibly adopt Indian children in the future. Jason and Danielle Clifford, who live in Minnesota, fos- tered Child P., whose maternal grandmother belongs to the White Earth Band of Ojibwe Tribe. When Child P. entered state custody around the age of three, her mother informed the court that ICWA did not apply because Child P. was not eligible for tribal membership. The Tribe wrote a letter to the court confrming the same. After two years in the foster care system, Child P. was placed with the Cliffords, who eventually sought to adopt her. The Tribe intervened in the proceedings and, with no explanation for its change in position, informed the court that Child P. was in fact eligible for tribal member- ship. Later, the Tribe announced that it had enrolled Child P. as a member. To comply with ICWA, Minnesota placed Child P. with her maternal grandmother, who had lost her foster license due to a criminal conviction. The Clif- fords continued to pursue the adoption, but, citing ICWA, the court denied their motion. Like the other families, the Clif- fords intend to foster or adopt Indian children in the future. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court C The Brackeens, the Librettis, Hernandez, and the Cliffords (whom we will refer to collectively as the “individual peti- tioners”) fled this suit in federal court against the United States, the Department of the Interior and its Secretary, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and its Director, and the De- partment of Health and Human Services and its Secretary (whom we will refer to collectively as the “federal parties”). The individual petitioners were joined by the States of Texas, Indiana, and Louisiana—although only Texas contin- ues to challenge ICWA before this Court. Several Indian Tribes intervened to defend the law alongside the federal parties. Petitioners challenged ICWA as unconstitutional on multi- ple grounds. They asserted that Congress lacks authority to enact ICWA and that several of ICWA's requirements vio- late the anticommandeering principle of the Tenth Amend- ment. They argued that ICWA employs racial classifca- tions that unlawfully hinder non-Indian families from fostering or adopting Indian children. And they challenged § (c)—the provision that allows tribes to alter the priori- tization order—on the ground that it violates the non- delegation doctrine. The District Court granted petitioners' motion for sum- mary judgment on their constitutional claims, and a divided panel of the Fifth Circuit reversed. Brackeen v. Bernhardt, F. d (). After rehearing the case en banc, the Fifth Circuit affrmed in part and reversed in part. F. d () (per curiam). The en banc court concluded that ICWA does not exceed Congress's legislative power, that § (c) does not violate the nondelegation doctrine, Petitioners raised several other challenges that are not before this Court, including that ICWA's implementing regulations are arbitrary and capricious in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court and that some of ICWA's placement preferences satisfy the guarantee of equal protection. Id., at –. The court was evenly divided as to whether ICWA's other prefer- ences—those prioritizing “other Indian families” and “Indian foster home[s]” over non-Indian families—unconstitutionally discriminate on the basis of race. Id., at . The Fifth Circuit therefore affrmed the District Court's ruling that these preferences are unconstitutional. Petitioners' Tenth Amendment arguments effectively suc- ceeded across the board. The Fifth Circuit held that § (d)'s “active efforts” requirement, § (e)'s and §(f)'s expert witness requirements, and §(e)'s rec- ordkeeping requirement unconstitutionally commandeer the States. Ibid. It divided evenly with respect to the other provisions that petitioners challenge here: § (a)'s notice requirement, § (a) and § (b)'s placement preferences, and § (a)'s recordkeeping requirement. Ibid. So the Fifth Circuit affrmed the District Court's holding that these requirements, too, violate the Tenth Amendment. We granted certiorari. U. S. ––– (). II A We begin with petitioners' claim that ICWA exceeds Con- gress's power under Article I. In a long line of cases, we have characterized Congress's power to legislate with re- spect to the Indian tribes as “ `plenary and exclusive.' ” United States v. Lara, U. S. , (); South Da- kota v. Yankton Sioux Tribe, U. S. , () (“Con- gress possesses plenary power over Indian affairs”); Wash- ington v. Confederated Bands and Tribes of Yakima Nation, Hernandez and the families, the State of Texas, the federal parties, and the Tribes all fled cross-petitions for certiorari. After the cases were consolidated, Hernandez, the families, and Texas proceeded as petitioners before this Court, and the federal parties and the Tribes proceeded as respondents. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court U. S. , () (Congress exercises “plenary and exclusive power over Indian affairs”); Winton v. Amos, U. S. , () (“It is thoroughly established that Con- gress has plenary authority over the Indians and all their tribal relations”); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, U. S. , () (“Congress possesse[s] a paramount power over the property of the Indians”); Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, U. S. , () (“Congress possesses plenary power of legislation in regard to” the Indian tribes). Our cases leave little doubt that Congress's power in this feld is muscular, superseding both tribal and state authority. Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, U. S. , () (“Congress has plenary authority to limit, modify or eliminate the powers of local self-government which the tribes otherwise possess”); Dick v. United States, U. S. , () (“Congress has power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, and such power is superior and paramount to the authority of any State within whose limits are Indian tribes”). To be clear, however, “plenary” does not mean “free- foating.” A power unmoored from the Constitution would lack both justifcation and limits. So like the rest of its leg- islative powers, Congress's authority to regulate Indians must derive from the Constitution, not the atmosphere. Our precedent traces that power to multiple sources. The Indian Commerce Clause authorizes Congress “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, § , cl. . We have interpreted the Indian Commerce Clause to reach not only trade, but certain “Indian affairs” too. Cot- ton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, U. S. , (). Notably, we have declined to treat the Indian Commerce Clause as interchangeable with the Interstate Commerce Clause. Ibid. While under the Interstate Commerce Clause, States retain “some authority” over trade, we have explained that “virtually all authority over Indian commerce and Indian tribes” lies with the Federal Government. Semi- nole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, U. S. , (). Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court The Treaty Clause—which provides that the President “shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties”—provides a second source of power over Indian affairs. Art. II, § , cl. . Until the late th century, relations between the Federal Government and the Indian tribes were governed largely by treaties. Lara, U. S., at . Of course, the treaty power “does not lit- erally authorize Congress to act legislatively,” since it is housed in Article II rather than Article I. Ibid. Neverthe- less, we have asserted that “treaties made pursuant to that power can authorize Congress to deal with `matters' with which otherwise `Congress could not deal.' ” Ibid. And even though the United States formally ended the practice of entering into new treaties with the Indian tribes in , this decision did not limit Congress's power “to legislate on problems of Indians” pursuant to pre-existing treaties. An- toine v. Washington, U. S. , () (emphasis deleted). We have also noted that principles inherent in the Consti- tution's structure empower Congress to act in the feld of Indian affairs. See Morton v. Mancari, U. S. , – () (“The plenary power of Congress to deal with the special problems of Indians is drawn both explicitly and im- plicitly from the Constitution itself”). At the founding, “ `In- dian affairs were more an aspect of military and foreign pol- icy than a subject of domestic or municipal law.' ” Lara, U. S., at . With this in mind, we have posited that Con- gress's legislative authority might rest in part on “the Con- stitution's adoption of preconstitutional powers necessarily inherent in any Federal Government, namely, powers that this Court has described as `necessary concomitants of na- tionality.' ” Ibid. (quoting United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., U. S. , – ()). Finally, the “trust relationship between the United States and the Indian people” informs the exercise of legislative power. United States v. Mitchell, U. S. , – Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court (). As we have explained, the Federal Government has “ `charged itself with moral obligations of the highest respon- sibility and trust' ” toward Indian tribes. United States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, U. S. , (); Seminole Nation v. United States, U. S. , () (“[T]his Court has recognized the distinctive obligation of trust in- cumbent upon the Government in its dealings with these dependent and sometimes exploited people”). The contours of this “special relationship” are undefned. Mancari, U. S., at . In sum, Congress's power to legislate with respect to Indi- ans is well established and broad. Consistent with that breadth, we have not doubted Congress's ability to legislate across a wide range of areas, including criminal law, domestic violence, employment, property, tax, and trade. See, e. g., Lara, U. S., at (law allowing tribes to prosecute non- member Indians who committed crimes on tribal land); United States v. Bryant, U. S. , – () (law criminalizing domestic violence in Indian country); Mancari, U. S., at (policy granting Indians employment prefer- ences); United States v. Antelope, U. S. , () (law establishing a criminal code for Indian country); Yank- ton Sioux Tribe, U. S., at (law altering the bound- aries of a reservation); Sunderland v. United States, U. S. , – () (agency action removing the restric- tions on alienation of a homestead allotted to an Indian); Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, U. S. , , n. () (law granting tribe immunity from state taxation); United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., U. S. , , () (law regulating the sale of timber by an Indian tribe). Indeed, we have only rarely concluded that a challenged statute exceeded Congress's power to regulate Indian affairs. See, e. g., Seminole Tribe, U. S., at –. Admittedly, our precedent is unwieldy, because it rarely ties a challenged statute to a specifc source of constitutional authority. That makes it diffcult to categorize cases and Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court even harder to discern the limits on Congress's power. Still, we have never wavered in our insistence that Congress's In- dian affairs power “ `is not absolute.' ” Delaware Tribal Business Comm. v. Weeks, U. S. , (); United States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, U. S. , () (“The power of Congress over Indian affairs may be of a plenary nature; but it is not absolute”); United States v. Creek Nation, U. S. , () (plenary power is “subject to limitations inhering in such a guardianship and to pertinent constitutional restrictions”). It could not be otherwise—Article I gives Congress a series of enumerated powers, not a series of blank checks. Thus, we reiterate that Congress's authority to legislate with respect to Indians is not unbounded. It is plenary within its sphere, but even a sizeable sphere has borders. B Petitioners contend that ICWA exceeds Congress's power. Their principal theory, and the one accepted by both Justice Alito and the dissenters in the Fifth Circuit, is that ICWA treads on the States' authority over family law. Domestic relations have traditionally been governed by state law; thus, federal power over Indians stops where state power over the family begins. Or so the argument goes. It is true that Congress lacks a general power over domes- tic relations, In re Burrus, U. S. , – (), and, as a result, responsibility for regulating marriage and child custody remains primarily with the States, Sosna v. Iowa, U. S. , (). See also Moore v. Sims, U. S. Justice Alito’s dissent criticizes the Court for “violating one of the most basic laws of logic” with our conclusion that “Congress's power over Indian affairs is `plenary' but not `absolute.' ” Post, at . Yet the dissent goes on to make that very same observation. Ibid. (“[E]ven so-called plenary powers cannot override foundational constitutional constraints”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court , (). But the Constitution does not erect a fre- wall around family law. On the contrary, when Congress validly legislates pursuant to its Article I powers, we “ha[ve] not hesitated” to fnd conficting state family law preempted, “[n]otwithstanding the limited application of federal law in the feld of domestic relations generally.” Ridgway v. Ridg- way, U. S. , () (federal law providing life insur- ance preempted state family-property law); see also Hillman v. Maretta, U. S. , () (“state laws `governing the economic aspects of domestic relations . . . must give way to clearly conficting federal enactments' ” (alteration in original)). In fact, we have specifcally recognized Con- gress's power to displace the jurisdiction of state courts in adoption proceedings involving Indian children. Fisher v. District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., U. S. , () (per curiam). Petitioners are trying to turn a general observation (that Congress's Article I powers rarely touch state family law) into a constitutional carveout (that family law is wholly ex- empt from federal regulation). That argument is a non- starter. As James Madison said to Members of the First Congress, when the Constitution conferred a power on Con- gress, “they might exercise it, although it should interfere with the laws, or even the Constitution of the States.” Annals of Cong. (). Family law is no exception. C Petitioners come at the problem from the opposite direc- tion too: Even if there is no family law carveout to the Indian affairs power, they contend that Congress's authority does not stretch far enough to justify ICWA. Ticking through the various sources of power, petitioners assert that the Con- stitution does not authorize Congress to regulate custody proceedings for Indian children. Their arguments fail to grapple with our precedent, and because they bear the bur- Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court den of establishing ICWA's unconstitutionality, we cannot sustain their challenge to the law. See Lujan v. G & G Fire Sprinklers, Inc., U. S. , (). Take the Indian Commerce Clause, which is petitioners' primary focus. According to petitioners, the Clause author- izes Congress to legislate only with respect to Indian tribes as government entities, not Indians as individuals. Brief for Individual Petitioners –. But we held more than a cen- tury ago that “commerce with the Indian tribes, means com- merce with the individuals composing those tribes.” United States v. Holliday, Wall. , – () (law prohibit- ing the sale of alcohol to Indians in Indian country); United States v. Nice, U. S. , () (same). So that ar- gument is a dead end. Petitioners also assert that ICWA takes the “commerce” out of the Indian Commerce Clause. Their consistent re- frain is that “children are not commodities that can be traded.” Brief for Individual Petitioners ; Brief for Peti- tioner Texas (“[C]hildren are not commodities”); id., at (“Children are not articles of commerce”). Rhetorically, it is a powerful point—of course children are not commercial products. Legally, though, it is beside the point. As we already explained, our precedent states that Congress's power under the Indian Commerce Clause encompasses not only trade but also “Indian affairs.” Cotton Petroleum, U. S., at . Even the judges who otherwise agreed with petitioners below rejected this narrow view of the Indian Commerce Clause as inconsistent with both our cases and “[l]ongstanding patterns of federal legislation.” F. d, at – (principal opinion of Duncan, J.). Rather than dealing with this precedent, however, petitioners virtually ignore it. Next, petitioners argue that ICWA cannot be authorized by principles inherent in the Constitution's structure be- cause those principles “extend, at most, to matters of war and peace.” Brief for Petitioner Texas . But that is not Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court what our cases say. We have referred generally to the pow- ers “necessarily inherent in any Federal Government,” and we have offered examples like “creating departments of In- dian affairs, appointing Indian commissioners, and . . . `secur- ing and preserving the friendship of the Indian Nations' ”— none of which are military actions. Lara, U. S., at –. Once again, petitioners make no argument that takes our cases on their own terms. Finally, petitioners observe that ICWA does not imple- ment a federal treaty. Brief for Petitioner Texas –; Brief for Individual Petitioners –. This does not get them very far either, since Congress did not purport to enact ICWA pursuant to the Treaty Clause power and the Fifth Circuit did not uphold ICWA on that rationale. Presumably recognizing these obstacles, petitioners turn to criticizing our precedent as inconsistent with the Constitu- tion's original meaning. Yet here too, they offer no account of how their argument fts within the landscape of our case law. For instance, they neither ask us to overrule the prece- dent they criticize nor try to reconcile their approach with it. They are also silent about the potential consequences of their position. Would it undermine established cases and statutes? If so, which ones? Petitioners do not say. We recognize that our case law puts petitioners in a dif- fcult spot. We have often sustained Indian legislation without specifying the source of Congress's power, and we have insisted that Congress's power has limits without say- ing what they are. Yet petitioners' strategy for dealing with the confusion is not to offer a theory for rationalizing this body of law—that would at least give us something to work with. Instead, they frame their arguments as if the Texas foated a theory for the frst time at oral argument. It said that, taken together, our plenary power cases fall into three buckets: () those allowing Congress to legislate pursuant to an enumerated power, such as the Indian Commerce Clause or the Treaty Clause; () those allowing Con- gress to regulate the tribes as government entities; and () those allowing HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court slate were clean. More than two centuries in, it is any- thing but. If there are arguments that ICWA exceeds Congress's au- thority as our precedent stands today, petitioners do not make them. We therefore decline to disturb the Fifth Cir- cuit's conclusion that ICWA is consistent with Article I. III We now turn to petitioners' host of anticommandeering ar- guments, which we will break into three categories. First, petitioners challenge certain requirements that apply in in- voluntary proceedings to place a child in foster care or termi- nate parental rights: the requirements that an initiating party demonstrate “active efforts” to keep the Indian family together; serve notice of the proceeding on the parent or Indian custodian and tribe; and demonstrate, by a heightened burden of proof and expert testimony, that the child is likely to suffer “serious emotional or physical damage” if the par- ent or Indian custodian retains custody. Second, petitioners challenge ICWA's placement preferences. They claim that Congress can neither force state agencies to fnd preferred placements for Indian children nor require state courts to apply federal standards when making custody determina- tions. Third, they insist that Congress cannot force state courts to maintain or transmit to the Federal Government records of custody proceedings involving Indian children. Congress to enact legislation that applies to federal or tribal land. Tr. of Oral Arg. . According to Texas, ICWA is unconstitutional because it does not fall within any of these categories. We have never broken down our cases this way. But even if Texas's theory is descriptively accurate, Texas offers no explanation for why Congress's power is limited to these categories. All petitioners argue that these provisions violate the anticomman- deering principle. Since Texas has standing to raise these claims, we need not address whether the individual petitioners also have standing to do so. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () As a Opinion of the Court A reminder, “involuntary proceedings” are those to which a parent does not consent. § ; CFR § .. Heightened protections for parents and tribes apply in this context, and while petitioners challenge most of them, the “active efforts” provision is their primary target. That pro- vision requires “[a]ny party” seeking to effect an involuntary foster care placement or termination of parental rights to “satisfy the court that active efforts have been made to pro- vide remedial services and rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the Indian family and that these efforts have proved unsuccessful.” § (d). According to petitioners, this subsection directs state and local agencies to provide extensive services to the parents of Indian chil- dren. It is well established that the Tenth Amendment bars Congress from “command[ing] the States' offcers, or those of their political subdivisions, to administer or enforce a federal regulatory program.” Printz v. United States, U. S. , (). The “active efforts” provision, petitioners say, does just that. Petitioners' argument has a fundamental faw: To succeed, they must show that § (d) harnesses a State's legislative or executive authority. But the provision applies to “[a]ny party” who initiates an involuntary proceeding, thus sweep- ing in private individuals and agencies as well as government entities. A demand that either public or private actors can satisfy is unlikely to require the use of sovereign power. Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (). Notwithstanding the term “[a]ny party,” petitioners insist that § (d) is “best read” as a command to the States. See id., at ––– (whether a federal law directly regulates the States depends on how it is “best read”). They contend that, as a practical matter, States—not private parties—ini- tiate the vast majority of involuntary proceedings. Despite Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court the breadth of the language, the argument goes, States are obviously the “parties” to whom the statute refers. The record contains no evidence supporting the assertion that States institute the vast majority of involuntary pro- ceedings. Examples of private suits are not hard to fnd, so we are skeptical that their number is negligible. See, e. g., Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, U. S. , – () (prospective adoptive parents); In re Guardianship of Eliza W., Neb. , , N. W. d , () (grand- mother); In re Guardianship of J. C. D., S. D. , ¶, N. W. d , (grandparents); In re Adoption of T. A. W., Wash. d , –, –, P. d , –, – () (mother and stepfather); J. W. v. R. J., P. d , – (Alaska ) (same). Indeed, Texas's own family code permits certain private parties to initiate suits for the termination of parental rights. Tex. Fam. Code Ann. § .(a) (West Cum. Supp. ); see Reply Brief for Texas . And while petitioners treat “active efforts” as synonymous with “government pro- grams,” state courts have applied the “active efforts” requirement in private suits too. See, e. g., In re Adoption of T. A. W., Wash. d, at –, P. d, at – ; S. S. v. Stephanie H., Ariz. , , P. d , (App. ); In re N. B., P. d , – (Colo. App. ). That is consistent with ICWA's fndings, which de- scribe the role that both public and private actors played in the unjust separation of Indian children from their families and tribes. § . Given all this, it is implausible that § (d) is directed primarily, much less exclusively, at the States. To bolster their claim that the “active efforts” requirement is aimed at the States, petitioners point to a statement from the Department of the Interior asserting that the reference to “active efforts” refects Congress's intent “to require States to affrmatively provide Indian families with sub- stantive services and not merely make the services available.” Fed. Reg. (emphasis added). This statement does not move the needle. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Legislation that applies “evenhandedly” to state and pri- vate actors does not typically implicate the Tenth Amend- ment. Murphy, U. S., at –––. In South Carolina v. Baker, for example, we held that a generally applicable law regulating unregistered bonds did not commandeer the States; rather, it required States “wishing to engage in cer- tain activity [to] take administrative and sometimes legisla- tive action to comply with federal standards regulating that activity.” U. S. , – (). We reached a sim- ilar conclusion in Reno v. Condon, which dealt with a statute prohibiting state motor vehicle departments (DMVs) from selling a driver's personal information without the driver's consent. U. S. , – (). The law regulated not only the state DMVs, but also private parties who had already purchased this information and sought to resell it. Id., at . Applying Baker, we concluded that the Act did not “require the States in their sovereign capacity to regu- late their own citizens,” “enact any laws or regulations,” or “assist in the enforcement of federal statutes regulating pri- vate individuals.” U. S., at –. Instead, it per- missibly “regulate[d] the States as the owners of data bases.” Id., at . Petitioners argue that Baker and Condon are distinguish- able because they addressed laws regulating a State's com- mercial activity, while ICWA regulates a State's “core sov- ereign function of protecting the health and safety of children within its borders.” Brief for Petitioner Texas . A State can stop selling bonds or a driver's personal informa- Neither § (d) nor the regulations limit themselves to States; moreover, the regulations plainly contemplate that services will come from private organizations as well as the government. CFR § . (“Agency means a nonproft, for-proft, or governmental organization . . . that per- forms, or provides services to biological parents, foster parents, or adop- tive parents to assist in the administrative and social work necessary for foster, preadoptive, or adoptive placements”). The Department's state- ment is thus consistent with the plain language of § , which applies to both private and state actors. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court tion, petitioners say, but it cannot withdraw from the area of child welfare—protecting children is the business of govern- ment, even if it is work in which private parties share. Nor, of course, could Texas avoid ICWA by excluding only Indian children from social services. Because States cannot exit the feld, they are hostage to ICWA, which requires them to implement Congress's regulatory program for the care of Indian children and families. Id., at –; Reply Brief for Texas . This argument is presumably directed at situations in which only the State can rescue a child from neglectful par- ents. But § applies to more than child neglect—for in- stance, it applies when a biological mother arranges for a private adoption without the biological father's consent. See, e. g., Adoptive Couple, U. S., at –. And even when a child is trapped in an abusive home, the State is not necessarily the only option for rescue—for instance, a grand- mother can seek guardianship of a grandchild whose parents are failing to care for her. See, e. g., In re Guardianship of Eliza W., Neb., at –, N. W. d, at –. Petitioners do not distinguish between these varied situa- tions, much less isolate a domain in which only the State can act. Some amici assert that, at the very least, removing children from imminent danger in the home falls exclusively to the government. Brief for Academy of Adoption and As- sisted Reproduction Attorneys et al. as Amici Curiae (“Amici are aware of no state in which a private actor may lawfully remove a child from his existing home”). Maybe so—but that does not help petitioners' commandeering argu- ment, because the “active efforts” requirement does not apply to emergency removals. § . If ICWA comman- deers state performance of a “core sovereign function,” peti- tioners do not give us the details. When a federal statute applies on its face to both private and state actors, a commandeering argument is a heavy Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court lift—and petitioners have not pulled it off. Both state and private actors initiate involuntary proceedings. And, if there is a core of involuntary proceedings committed exclu- sively to the sovereign, Texas neither identifes its contours nor explains what § (d) requires of a State in that con- text. Petitioners have therefore failed to show that the “ac- tive efforts” requirement commands the States to deploy their executive or legislative power to implement federal In- dian policy. As for petitioners' challenges to other provisions of § —the notice requirement, expert witness requirement, and evidentiary standards—we doubt that requirements placed on a State as litigant implicate the Tenth Amendment. But in any event, these provisions, like § (d), apply to both private and state actors, so they too pose no anticom- mandeering problem. B Petitioners also raise a Tenth Amendment challenge to § , which dictates placement preferences for Indian chil- dren. According to petitioners, this provision orders state agencies to perform a “diligent search” for placements that satisfy ICWA's hierarchy. Brief for Petitioner Texas ; Reply Brief for Texas ; see also Brief for Individual Pe- titioners –. Petitioners assert that the Department of the Interior understands § this way, CFR § .(c)(), and the Tribes who intervene in proceedings governed by ICWA share that understanding—for example, “the Librettis' adoption of Baby O was delayed because the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo Tribe demanded that county offcials exhaustively search for a placement with the Tribe frst.” Reply Brief for Texas –. Just as Congress cannot com- pel state offcials to search databases to determine the law- fulness of gun sales, Printz, U. S., at –, petitioners argue, Congress cannot compel state offcials to search for a federally preferred placement. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court As an initial matter, this argument encounters the same problem that plagues petitioners with respect to § : Peti- tioners have not shown that the “diligent search” require- ment, which applies to both private and public parties, de- mands the use of state sovereign authority. But this argument fails for another reason too: Section does not require anyone, much less the States, to search for alterna- tive placements. As the United States emphasizes, petition- ers' interpretation “cannot be squared with this Court's deci- sion in Adoptive Couple,” which held that “ `there simply is no “preference” to apply if no alternative party that is eligi- ble to be preferred . . . has come forward.' ” Brief for Fed- eral Parties (quoting U. S., at ); Adoptive Couple, U. S., at (“§ (a)'s preferences are inapplicable in cases where no alternative party has formally sought to adopt the child”). Instead, the burden is on the tribe or other objecting party to produce a higher-ranked placement. Ibid. So, as it stands, petitioners assert an anticomman- deering challenge to a provision that does not command state agencies to do anything. State courts are a different matter. ICWA indisputably requires them to apply the placement preferences in making custody determinations. §§ (a), (b). Petitioners argue that this too violates the anticommandeering doctrine. To be sure, they recognize that Congress can require state courts, unlike state executives and legislatures, to enforce federal law. See New York v. United States, U. S. , – () (“Federal statutes enforceable in state courts do, in a sense, direct state judges to enforce them, but this sort of federal `direction' of state judges is mandated by the text of the Supremacy Clause”). But they draw a distinc- tion between requiring state courts to entertain federal causes of action and requiring them to apply federal law to state causes of action. They claim that if state law provides the cause of action—as Texas law does here—then the State Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court gets to call the shots, unhindered by any federal instruction to the contrary. Brief for Individual Petitioners –, –. This argument runs headlong into the Constitution. The Supremacy Clause provides that “the Laws of the United States . . . shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any state to the Contrary not- withstanding.” Art. VI, cl. . Thus, when Congress enacts a valid statute pursuant to its Article I powers, “state law is naturally preempted to the extent of any confict with a fed- eral statute.” Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, U. S. , (). End of story. That a federal law modifes a state-law cause of action does not limit its preemp- tive effect. See, e. g., Hillman, U. S., at – (fed- eral law establishing an “ `order of precedence' ” for benef- ciaries of life insurance preempted state law); Egelhoff v. Egelhoff, U. S. , – () (Employee Retire- ment Income Security Act preempted state law regarding the economic consequences of divorce); Wissner v. Wissner, U. S. , – () (federal military benefts law preempted state community-property rules). C Finally, we turn to ICWA's recordkeeping provisions. Section (a) requires courts to provide the Secretary of the Interior with a copy of the fnal order in the adoptive placement of any Indian child. The court must also provide “other information as may be necessary to show” the child's name and tribal affliation, the names and addresses of the biological parents and adoptive parents, and the identity of any agency with information about the adoptive placement. Section (e) requires the State to “maintai[n]” a record “evidencing the efforts to comply with the order of prefer- ence” specifed by ICWA. The record “shall be made avail- Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court able at any time upon the request of the Secretary or the Indian child's tribe.” Petitioners argue that Congress cannot conscript the States into federal service by assigning them recordkeeping tasks. The anticommandeering doctrine applies “distinctively” to a state court's adjudicative responsibilities. Printz, U. S., at . As we just explained, this distinction is evi- dent in the Supremacy Clause, which refers specifcally to state judges. Art. VI, cl. . From the beginning, the text manifested in practice: As originally understood, the Consti- tution allowed Congress to require “state judges to enforce federal prescriptions, insofar as those prescriptions related to matters appropriate for the judicial power.” Printz, U. S., at (emphasis deleted). In Printz, we indicated that this principle may extend to tasks that are “ancillary” to a “quintessentially adjudicative task”—such as “recording, registering, and certifying” documents. Id., at , n. . Petitioners reject Printz's observation, insisting that there is a distinction between rules of decision (which state courts must follow) and recordkeeping requirements (which they can ignore). But Printz described numerous historical examples of Congress imposing recordkeeping and reporting requirements on state courts. The early Congresses passed laws directing state courts to perform certain tasks fairly described as “ancillary” to the courts' adjudicative duties. For example, state courts were required to process and record applications for United States citizenship. Act of Though § (e) does not specify that the records be retained by state courts, as opposed to state agencies, context makes clear that a “record of each such placement” refers to the state court's placement determination. See Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfeld, U. S. , , n. (). True, the provision leaves it up to the State whether to keep the records with a court or agency. See CFR § .(c) (“The State court or agency should notify the BIA whether these records are main- tained within the court system or by a State agency”). But allowing the State to make that choice does not transform the documents into some- thing other than a court record. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court Mar. , , ch. , § , Stat. –. The clerk (or other court offcial) was required “to certify and transmit” the ap- plication to the Secretary of State, along with information about “the name, age, nation, residence and occupation, for the time being, of the alien.” Act of June , , §, Stat. . The clerk also had to register aliens seeking naturalization and issue certifcates confrming the court's receipt of the alien's request for registration. Act of Apr. , , § , Stat. . Federal law imposed other duties on state courts unrelated to immigration and naturalization. The Judiciary Act of , which authorized “any justice of the peace, or other magistrate of any of the United States,” to arrest and im- prison federal offenders, required the judge to set bail at the defendant's request. § , Stat. . Congress also re- quired state courts to administer oaths to prisoners, to issue certifcates authorizing the apprehension of fugitives, and to collect proof of the claims of Canadian refugees who had Printz noted uncertainty about whether the naturalization laws ap- plied only to States that voluntarily “authorized their courts to conduct naturalization proceedings.” U. S., at –. But on their face, these statutes did not require state consent. See Act of Mar. , , ch. , § , Stat. (providing that an alien could apply for citizenship “to any common law court of record, in any one of the states wherein he shall have resided for the term of one year at least”); Act of Apr. , , ch. , Stat. (referring to “the supreme, superior, district or circuit court of some one of the states, or of the territorial districts of the United States, or a circuit or district court of the United States”). And as Printz recognized, this Court has never held that consent is required. U. S., at –; see Holmgren v. United States, U. S. , () (hold- ing that Congress could empower state courts to conduct naturalization proceedings, but because California had already authorized jurisdiction, reserving the question whether its consent was necessary); but see United States v. Jones, U. S. , () (stating in dicta that the natural- ization laws “could not be enforced” in state court “against the consent of the States”). In any event, while the naturalization laws are certainly not conclusive evidence, they are nonetheless relevant to discerning histor- ical practice. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court aided the United States in the Revolutionary War. Act of May , , ch. , § , Stat. (“any person imprisoned . . . may have the oath or affrmation herein after expressed administered to him by any judge of the United States, or of the general or supreme court of law of the state in which the debtor is imprisoned”); Act of Feb. , , ch. , § , Stat. (“governor or chief magistrate of the state or territory” shall “certif[y] as authentic” an indictment or affdavit charg- ing a “fugitive from justice”); Act of Apr. , , § , Stat. (“proof of the several circumstances necessary to entitle the applicants to the benefts of this act, may be taken before . . . a judge of the supreme or superior court, or the frst justice or frst judge of the court of common pleas or county court of any state”). There is more. Shortly after ratification, Congress passed a detailed statute that required state-court judges to gather and certify reports. Act of July , , § , Stat. . The Act authorized commanders of ships to request examinations of their vessels from any “justice of the peace of the city, town or place.” Ibid. The judge would order three qualifed people to prepare a report on the vessel's con- dition, which the judge would review and “endorse.” Ibid. Then, the judge was required to issue an order regarding “whether the said ship or vessel is ft to proceed on the in- tended voyage; and if not, whether such repairs can be made or defciencies supplied where the ship or vessel then lays.” Ibid. These early congressional enactments “provid[e] `contem- poraneous and weighty evidence' of the Constitution's mean- ing.” Bowsher v. Synar, U. S. , (). Collec- tively, they demonstrate that the Constitution does not prohibit the Federal Government from imposing adjudicative tasks on state courts. This makes sense against the back- drop of the Madisonian Compromise: Since Article III estab- lished only the Supreme Court and made inferior federal courts optional, Congress could have relied almost entirely Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court on state courts to apply federal law. Printz, U. S., at . Had Congress taken that course, it would have had to rely on state courts to perform adjudication-adjacent tasks too. We now confrm what we suggested in Printz: Congress may impose ancillary recordkeeping requirements related to state-court proceedings without violating the Tenth Amend- ment. Such requirements do not offoad the Federal Gov- ernment's responsibilities onto the States, nor do they put state legislatures and executives “under the direct control of Congress.” Murphy, U. S., at –––. Rather, they are a logical consequence of our system of “dual sovereignty” in which state courts are required to apply federal law. See Gregory v. Ashcroft, U. S. , (). Here, ICWA's recordkeeping requirements are comparable in kind and in degree to the historical examples. Like the naturalization laws, § (a) requires the state court to transmit to the Secretary a copy of a court order along with basic demographic information. Section (e) likewise re- quires the State to record a limited amount of information— the efforts made to comply with the placement preferences— and provide the information to the Secretary and to the child's tribe. These duties are “ancillary” to the state court's obligation to conduct child custody proceedings in compliance with ICWA. Printz, U. S., at , n. . Thus, ICWA's recordkeeping requirements are consistent with the Tenth Amendment. IV Petitioners raise two additional claims: an equal protection challenge to ICWA's placement preferences and a nondelega- tion challenge to the provision allowing tribes to alter the placement preferences. We do not reach the merits of these claims because no party before the Court has standing to raise them. Article III requires a plaintiff to show that she has suffered an injury in fact that is “ `fairly traceable to Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court the defendant's allegedly unlawful conduct and likely to be redressed by the requested relief.' ” California v. Texas, U. S. –––, ––– (). Neither the individual petitioners nor Texas can pass that test. A The individual petitioners argue that ICWA injures them by placing them on “[un]equal footing” with Indian parents who seek to adopt or foster an Indian child. Northeastern Fla. Chapter, Associated Gen. Contractors of America v. Jacksonville, U. S. , (). Under ICWA's hier- archy of preferences, non-Indian parents are generally last in line for potential placements. According to petitioners, this “erects a barrier that makes it more diffcult for mem- bers of one group to obtain a beneft than it is for members of another group.” Ibid.; see also Turner v. Fouche, U. S. , () (the Equal Protection Clause secures the right of individuals “to be considered” for government positions and benefts “without the burden of invidiously discriminatory disqualifcations”). The racial discrimination they allege counts as an Article III injury. But the individual petitioners have not shown that this injury is “likely” to be “redressed by judicial relief.” Trans- Union LLC v. Ramirez, U. S. –––, ––– (). They seek an injunction preventing the federal parties from enforcing ICWA and a declaratory judgment that the challenged provi- sions are unconstitutional. Yet enjoining the federal parties would not remedy the alleged injury, because state courts apply the placement preferences, and state agencies carry out the court-ordered placements. §§ (), (a), (b); Respondents raise other objections to the individual petitioners' stand- ing, including that the alleged injury is speculative because it depends on future proceedings to foster or adopt Indian children. Brief for Tribal Defendants –; Brief for Federal Parties –. Because we resolve the standing of all individual petitioners on the ground of redressability, we do not address respondents' other arguments. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court see also Brief for Individual Petitioners (“There is no fed- eral offcial who administers ICWA or carries out its man- dates”). The state offcials who implement ICWA are “not parties to the suit, and there is no reason they should be obliged to honor an incidental legal determination the suit produced.” Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, U. S. , () (plurality opinion). So an injunction would not give petitioners legally enforceable protection from the al- legedly imminent harm. Petitioners' request for a declaratory judgment suffers from the same faw. See Skelly Oil Co. v. Phillips Petro- leum Co., U. S. , – (). This form of relief conclusively resolves “ `the legal rights of the parties.' ” Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC, U. S. , () (emphasis added). But again, state of- fcials are nonparties who would not be bound by the judg- ment. Taylor v. Sturgell, U. S. , – (). Thus, the equal protection issue would not be settled be- tween petitioners and the offcials who matter—which would leave the declaratory judgment powerless to remedy the al- leged harm. F. d, at (Costa, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (“What saves proper declaratory judgments from a redressability problem—but is lacking here—is that they have preclusive effect on a traditional law- suit that is imminent”). After all, the point of a declaratory judgment “is to establish a binding adjudication that enables the parties to enjoy the benefts of reliance and repose secured by res judicata.” A C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § (d ed. Supp. ). Without preclusive effect, a declaratory judgment is little more than an advisory opinion. Ibid.; see Public Serv. Comm'n of Utah v. Wycoff Co., U. S. , – (). The individual petitioners do not dispute—or even ad- dress—any of this. Instead, they insist that state courts are likely to defer to a federal court's interpretation of federal law, thus giving rise to a substantial likelihood that a favor- HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court able judgment will redress their injury. Brief in Opposition for Individual Respondents –; Reply Brief for Individual Petitioners . They point out that, in the Brackeens' ongo- ing efforts to adopt Y. R. J., the trial court stated that it would follow the federal court's ruling on the Brackeens' con- stitutional claims. Ibid. Thus, they reason, winning this case would solve their problems. But “[r]edressability requires that the court be able to af- ford relief through the exercise of its power, not through the persuasive or even awe-inspiring effect of the opinion ex- plaining the exercise of its power.” Franklin v. Massachu- setts, U. S. , () (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (emphasis in original); see also United States v. Juvenile Male, U. S. , () (per curiam) (a judgment's “possible, indirect beneft in a future lawsuit” does not preserve standing). Otherwise, re- dressability would be satisfed whenever a decision might persuade actors who are not before the court—contrary to Article III's strict prohibition on “issuing advisory opin- ions.” Carney v. Adams, U. S. –––, ––– (). It is a federal court's judgment, not its opinion, that remedies an injury; thus it is the judgment, not the opinion, that demon- strates redressability. The individual petitioners can hope for nothing more than an opinion, so they cannot satisfy Arti- cle III. B Texas also lacks standing to challenge the placement pref- erences. It has no equal protection rights of its own, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, U. S. , (), and it can- not assert equal protection claims on behalf of its citizens Of course, the individual petitioners can challenge ICWA's constitu- tionality in state court, as the Brackeens have done in their adoption proceedings for Y. R. J. F. d , (CA ) (principal opinion of Dennis, J.). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Opinion of the Court because “[a] State does not have standing as parens patriae to bring an action against the Federal Government,” Alfred L. Snapp & Son, Inc. v. Puerto Rico ex rel. Barez, U. S. , , n. (). That should make the issue open and shut. Yet Texas advances a few creative arguments for why it has standing despite these settled rules. It leads with what one might call an “unclean hands” injury: ICWA “injures Texas by requiring it to break its promise to its citizens that it will be colorblind in child-custody proceedings.” Reply Brief for Texas ; id., at (“ICWA forces Texas to violate its own constitutional obligations”). This is not the kind of “concrete” and “particularized” “invasion of a legally pro- tected interest” necessary to demonstrate an “ `injury in fact.' ” Lujan, U. S., at . Were it otherwise, a State would always have standing to bring constitutional chal- lenges when it is complicit in enforcing federal law. Texas tries to fnesse this problem by characterizing ICWA as a “fscal trap,” forcing it to discriminate against its citizens or lose federal funds. Brief for Petitioner Texas –. But ICWA is not a Spending Clause statute—Texas bases this argument on a vague reference to a different Spending Clause statute that it does not challenge. And Texas has not established that those funds, which the State has ac- cepted for years, are conditioned on compliance with the Texas claims that it can assert third-party standing on behalf of non- Indian families. This argument is a thinly veiled attempt to circumvent the limits on parens patriae standing. The case on which Texas relies, Georgia v. McCollum, U. S. (), allowed a State to represent jurors struck on the basis of race, because (among other reasons) “[a]s the representative of all its citizens, the State is the logical and proper party to assert the invasion of the constitutional rights of the excluded jurors in a criminal trial.” Id., at . But McCollum was not a suit against the Federal Government; moreover, it involved a “concrete injury” to the State and “some hindrance to the third party's ability to protect its own interests,” neither of which is present here. Id., at –. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Opinion of the Court placement preferences anyway. See U. S. C. § ; Brief for Federal Parties , n. . Texas also claims a direct pocketbook injury associated with the costs of keeping records, providing notice in invol- untary proceedings, and producing expert testimony before moving a child to foster care or terminating parental rights. Reply Brief for Texas –. But these alleged costs are not “fairly traceable” to the placement preferences, which “operate independently” of the provisions Texas identifes. California, U. S., at –––. The provisions do not rise or fall together; proving that the placement preferences are un- constitutional “would not show that enforcement of any of these other provisions violates the Constitution.” Ibid. In other words, Texas would continue to incur the complained- of costs even if it were relieved of the duty to apply the placement preferences. The former, then, cannot justify a challenge to the latter. Because Texas is not injured by the placement prefer- ences, neither would it be injured by a tribal resolution that altered those preferences pursuant to § (c). Texas therefore does not have standing to bring either its equal protection or its nondelegation claims. * * * For these reasons, we affrm the judgment of the Court of Appeals regarding Congress's constitutional authority to enact ICWA. On the anticommandeering claims, we reverse. On the equal protection and nondelegation claims, we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand with instructions to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction. It is so ordered. Although the individual petitioners join Texas's nondelegation chal- lenge to § (c), they raise no independent arguments about why they would have standing to bring this claim. Brief for Individual Petitioners , n. ; Brief for Federal Parties , n. . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Jackson join as to Parts I and III, concurring. In affrming the constitutionality of the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), the Court safeguards the ability of tribal members to raise their children free from interference by state authorities and other outside parties. In the proc- ess, the Court also goes a long way toward restoring the original balance between federal, state, and tribal powers the Constitution envisioned. I am pleased to join the Court's opinion in full. I write separately to add some his- torical context. To appreciate fully the signifcance of to- day's decision requires an understanding of the long line of policies that drove Congress to adopt ICWA. And to ap- preciate why that law surely comports with the Constitution requires a bird's-eye view of how our founding document me- diates between competing federal, state, and tribal claims of sovereignty. I The Indian Child Welfare Act did not emerge from a vac- uum. It came as a direct response to the mass removal of Indian children from their families during the s, s, and s by state offcials and private parties. That prac- tice, in turn, was only the latest iteration of a much older policy of removing Indian children from their families—one initially spearheaded by federal offcials with the aid of their state counterparts nearly years ago. In all its many forms, the dissolution of the Indian family has had devastat- ing effects on children and parents alike. It has also pre- sented an existential threat to the continued vitality of Tribes—something many federal and state offcials over the years saw as a feature, not as a faw. This is the story of ICWA. And with this story, it pays to start at the beginning. A When Native American Tribes were forced onto reserva- tions, they understood that life would never again be as it Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring was. M. Fletcher & W. Singel, Indian Children and the Federal–Tribal Trust Relationship, Neb. L. Rev. , – () (Fletcher & Singel). Securing a foothold for their children in a rapidly changing world, the Tribes knew, would require schooling. Ibid. So as they ceded their lands, Tribes also negotiated “more than ” treaties with the United States that included “education-related provisions.” Dept. of Interior, B. Newland, Federal Indian Boarding School Initiative Investigative Report (May ) (BIA Report). Many tribal leaders hoped these provisions would lead to the creation of “reservation Indian schools that would blend traditional Indian education with the needed non- Indian skills that would allow their members to adapt to the reservation way of life.” R. Cross, American Indian Educa- tion: The Terror of History and the Nation's Debt to the In- dian Peoples, U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. , (). At frst, Indian education typically came in the form of day schools, many of them “established through the . . . efforts of missionaries or the wives of Army offcers stationed at military reservations in the Indian country.” Annual Re- port of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of Interior, p. LXI () (ARCIA ). At those day schools, “Indian children would learn English as a second language,” along with “math and science.” Fletcher & Singel –. But the children lived at home with their families where they could continue to learn and practice “their languages, beliefs, and traditional knowledge.” Id., at . At least in those “early decades,” schooling was “generally . . . not compulsory” anyway. Id., at . The federal government had darker designs. By the late s, its goals turned toward destroying tribal identity and assimilating Indians into broader society. See L. Lacey, The White Man's Law and the American Indian Family in the Assimilation Era, Ark. L. Rev. , – (). Achieving those goals, offcials reasoned, required the “com- plete isolation of the Indian child from his savage anteced- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring ents.” ARCIA , at LXI. And because “the warm re- ciprocal affection existing between parents and children” was “among the strongest characteristics of the Indian na- ture,” offcials set out to eliminate it by dissolving Indian families. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Af- fairs to the Secretary of Interior (). Thus began Indian boarding schools. In , the Carlisle Indian Industrial School opened its doors at the site of an old military base in central Pennsylvania. Carlisle's head, then-Captain Richard Henry Pratt, summarized the school's mission this way: “[A]ll the Indian there is in the race should be dead. Kill the Indian in him, and save the man.” The Advantages of Mingling Indians With Whites, in Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction (I. Barrows ed. ). From its inception, Carlisle depended on state support. The school “was deeply enmeshed with local governments and their services,” and it was “expanded thanks to the Pennsylvania Legislature.” Brief for Ameri- can Historical Association et al. as Amici Curiae (Histori- ans Brief). Ultimately, Carlisle became the model for what would become a system of similar federal institutions nationwide. BIA Report . “The essential feature” of each was, in the federal government's own words, “the aboli- tion of the old tribal relations.” Annual Report of the Com- missioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of Interior (). Unsurprisingly, “[m]any Indian families resisted” the fed- eral government's boarding school initiative and “refus[ed] to send their children.” S. Rep. No. –, pt. , p. (). But Congress would not be denied. It authorized the Secretary of the Interior to “prevent the issuing of ra- tions or the furnishing of subsistence” to Indian families who would not surrender their children. Act of Mar. , , Stat. , ; see also, e. g., Act of Feb. , , Stat. . When economic coercion failed, offcials sometimes re- sorted to abduction. See BIA Report . As one offcial Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring later recounted, offcers would “visit the [Indian] camps un- expectedly with a detachment of [offcers], and seize such children as were proper and take them away to school, will- ing or unwilling.” ARCIA , at . When parents “hurried their children off to the mountains or hid them away in camp,” agents “chase[d] and capture[d] them like so many wild rabbits.” Ibid. Fathers were described as “sullen,” mothers “loud in their lamentations,” and the chil- dren “almost out of their wits with fright.” Ibid. Upon the children's arrival, the boarding schools would often seek to strip them of nearly every aspect of their iden- tity. The schools would take away their Indian names and give them English ones. See BIA Report . The schools would cut their hair—a point of shame in many native com- munities, see J. Reyhner & J. Eder, American Indian Educa- tion ()—and confscate their traditional clothes. ARCIA , at . Administrators delighted in the proc- ess, describing the “metamorphosis [a]s wonderful,” and pro- fessing that, in the main, “the little savage seems quite proud of his appearance.” Ibid. After intake, the schools fre- quently prohibited children from speaking their native lan- guage or engaging in customary cultural or religious prac- tices. BIA Report . Nor could children freely associate with members of their own Tribe. Schools would organize dorms by the “[s]ize of cadets, and not their tribal relations,” so as to further “br[eak] up tribal associations.” ARCIA , at . Resistance could invite punishments that included “with- holding food” and “whipping.” BIA Report (internal quotation marks omitted). Older boys faced “court- martial,” with other Indian children serving as prosecutors and judges. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of Interior (). Even com- pliant students faced “[r]ampant physical, sexual, and emo- tional abuse; disease; malnourishment; overcrowding; and lack of health care.” BIA Report . Given these condi- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring tions, it is unsurprising that many children tried (often un- successfully) to fee. Id., at , n. (recounting incidents). State offcials played a key role in foiling those efforts. “[P]olice from a variety of jurisdictions” assisted in “captur- [ing] and return[ing] runaway school children.” Historians Brief –. For “the runaways,” school administrators be- lieved “a whipping administered soundly and prayerfully, helps greatly towards bringing about the desired result.” BIA Report (internal quotation marks omitted). As one Commissioner of Indian Affairs put it, while “[t]he frst wild redskin placed in the school[s] chafes at the loss of freedom and longs to return to his wildwood home,” that resistance would fade “with each successive generation,” leaving a “greater desir[e] to be in touch with the dominant race.” Id., at – (internal quotation marks omitted). Adding insult to injury, the United States stuck Tribes with a bill for these programs. At points, as much as % of the funding for Indian boarding schools came from “Indian trust fund monies” raised by selling Indian land. Id., at . To subsidize operations further, the boarding schools fre- quently required children not even years old to work on the grounds. Id., at –. Some rationalized this experi- ence as a beneft to the children. Id., at –. But in can- dor, Indian boarding schools “could not possibly be main- tained . . . were it not for the fact that students [were] required to do . . . an amount of labor that ha[d] in the aggre- gate a very appreciable monetary value.” L. Meriam, Insti- tute for Government Research, The Problem of Indian Ad- ministration () (Meriam Report). To lower costs further and promote assimilation, some schools created an “outing system,” which sent Indian chil- dren to live “with white families” and perform “household and farm chores” for them. R. Trennert, From Carlisle to Phoenix: The Rise and Fall of the Indian Outing System, –, Pacifc Hist. Rev. , (). This pro- gram took many Indian children “even further from their HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring homes, families, and cultures.” Fletcher & Singel . Ad- vocates of the outing system hoped it would be “extended until every Indian child was in a white home.” D. Otis, The Dawes Act and the Allotment of Indian Lands (). In some respects, outing-system advocates were ahead of their time. The program they devised laid the groundwork for the system of mass adoption that, as we shall see, eventually moved Congress to enact ICWA many decades later. In , the Meriam Report, prepared by the Brookings Institution, examined conditions in the Indian boarding schools. It found, “frankly and unequivocally,” that “the provisions for the care of the Indian children . . . are grossly inadequate.” Meriam Report . It recommended that the federal government “accelerat[e]” the “mov[e] away from the boarding school” system in favor of “day school or public school facilities.” Id., at . That transition would be slow to materialize, though. As late as , federal boarding schools continued to house “more than per cent of the Indian school-age population.” W. Byler, The Destruction of American Indian Families (S. Unger ed. ) (AAIA Report). B The transition away from boarding schools was not the end of efforts to remove Indian children from their families and Tribes; more nearly, it was the end of the beginning. As federal boarding schools closed their doors and Indian chil- dren returned to the reservations, States with signifcant Native American populations found themselves facing sig- nifcant new educational and welfare responsibilities. Histo- rians Brief –. Around this time, as fate would have it, “shifting racial ideologies and changing gender norms [had] led to an increased demand for Indian children” by adoptive couples. M. Jacobs, Remembering the “Forgotten Child”: The American Indian Child Welfare Crisis of the s and s, Am. Indian Q. , (). Certain States saw in this shift an opportunity. They could “save . . . money” Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring by “promoting the adoption of Indian children by private families.” Id., at . This restarted a now-familiar nightmare for Indian fami- lies. The same assimilationist rhetoric previously invoked by the federal government persisted, “voiced this time by state and county offcials.” L. George, Why the Need for the Indian Child Welfare Act?, J. of Multicultural Social Work , (). “ `If you want to solve the Indian problem you can do it in one generation,' ” one offcial put it. Ibid. “ `You can take all of [the] children of school age and move them bodily out of the Indian country and transport them to some other part of the United States.' ” Ibid. This would allow “ `civilized people' ” to raise the children, instead of their families or their tribal communities. Ibid. In this respect, “[t]he removal of Indian children by [S]tates ha[d] much in common with Indian boarding schools.” Fletcher & Singel . Through the s and s, Indian-child removal reached new heights. Surveys conducted in and showed that “approximately – per cent of all Indian children [were] separated from their families.” AAIA Report . Often, these removals whisked children not only out of their families but out of their commu- nities. Some estimate that “more than per cent of non- related adoptions of Indian children [were] made by non- Indian couples.” Id., at . These family separations frequently lacked justifcation. According to one report, only about “ per cent” of the sepa- rations studied involved alleged physical abuse. Ibid. The other percent? “[V]ague grounds” such “as `neglect' or `social deprivation.' ” Ibid. These determinations, often “wholly inappropriate in the context of Indian family life,” came mainly from non-Indian social workers, many of whom were “ignorant of Indian cultural values and social norms.” Id., at –. They routinely penalized Indian parents for con- ditions of “[p]overty, poor housing, lack of modern plumbing, and overcrowding.” Id., at . One -year-old Sioux child, for Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring instance, was removed from her family on the State's “belief that an Indian reservation is an unsuitable environment for a child.” Ibid. So it was that some Indian families, “forced onto reservations at gunpoint,” were later “told that they live[d] in a place unft for raising their children.” Id., at –. Aggravating matters, these separations were frequently “carried out without due process of law.” Id., at . Chil- dren and their parents rarely had counsel. Ibid. For that matter, few cases saw the inside of a courtroom. Welfare departments knew that they could threaten to withhold ben- eft payments if Indian parents did not surrender custody. Id., at –. Nor were threats always necessary. After all the Tribes had suffered at the government's hands, many parents simply believed they had no power to resist. Ibid. One interviewed mother “wept that she did not dare protest the taking of her children for fear of going to jail.” Id., at . For those Indian parents who did resist, “simple abduction” remained an option. Id., at . Parents were, for instance, sometimes tricked into signing forms that they believed au- thorized only a brief removal of their children. Ibid. Only later would they discover that the forms purported to sur- render full custody. Ibid. Like the boarding school system that preceded it, this new program of removal had often-disastrous consequences. “Because the family is the most fundamental economic, edu- cational, and health-care unit” in society, these “assaults on Indian families” contributed to the precarious conditions that Indian parents and children already faced. Id., at –. Many parents came to “feel hopeless, powerless, and unwor- thy”—further feeding the cycle of removal. Id., at . For many children, separation from their families caused “severe distress” that “interfere[d] with their physical, mental, and social growth and development.” Ibid. It appears, too, that Indian children were “signifcantly more likely” to expe- rience “physical, sexual, [and] emotional” abuse in foster and Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring adoptive homes than their white counterparts. A. Landers, S. Danes, A. Campbell, & S. White Hawk, Abuse After Abuse: The Recurrent Maltreatment of American Indian Children in Foster Care and Adoption, Child Abuse & Neglect , p. (). All that often translated into long-lasting adverse health and emotional effects. See M. Yellow Horse Brave Heart, The Historical Trauma Response Among Natives and Its Re- lationship with Substance Abuse: A Lakota Illustration, J. of Psychoactive Drugs , – (); U. Running Bear et al., The Impact of Individual and Parental American In- dian Boarding School Attendance on Chronic Physical Health of Northern Plains Tribes, Family & Community Health , – (). As one study warned: “[E]fforts to make Indian children `white,' ” by removing them from their Tribes, “can destroy them.” AAIA Report . C Eventually, Congress could ignore the problem no longer. In , it responded with the Indian Child Welfare Act. Stat. . The statute's fndings show that Congress was acutely aware of the scope of the crisis. “[A]n alarmingly high percentage of Indian families,” Congress observed, were being “broken up by the removal, often unwarranted, of their children from them by nontribal [state] public and private agencies.” U. S. C. § (). And “an alarmin- gly high percentage of such children” were “placed in non- Indian foster and adoptive homes and institutions.” Ibid. Removal at that scale threatened the “continued existence and integrity of Indian [T]ribes.” § (). The statute Congress settled upon contains various provi- sions aimed at addressing this crisis. At bottom, though, the law's operation is simple. It installs substantive and procedural guardrails against the unjustifed termination of parental rights and removal of Indian children from tribal life. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring The touchstone of the statute is notice. In any involun- tary removal proceeding involving an Indian child, the ini- tiating party must inform () the parent or custodian; and () the child's Tribe. § (a). Either or both can intervene. § (c). ICWA also makes it harder for the moving party to win an involuntary removal proceeding. The party must show that “active efforts” have been made to avoid removing the Indian child. § (d). It must show the status quo is “likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the child.” §(e), (f). And it must prove that fact by “clear and convincing evidence,” § (e) (for placement in foster services), or “beyond a reasonable doubt,” §(f) (for termination of parental rights). Even when it comes to voluntary removal proceedings, ICWA sets certain “minimum Federal standards” for “the placement of [Indian] children in foster or adoptive homes.” § . In any adoptive placement, a court by default must give preference to “() a member of the child's extended family; () other members of the Indian child's [T]ribe; or () other Indian families.” § (a). This priority gov- erns unless the initiating party can show “good cause.” Ibid. A similar regime applies by default to foster-care or pre-adoptive placements. § (b). But note that “by de- fault.” ICWA gives Tribes a voice. It allows them to establish a “different order of preference by resolution,” pro- vided it is “the least restrictive setting appropriate to the particular needs of the child.” § (c). Recognizing that coercion remains possible even with these protections, ICWA also allows for postplacement relief. It lets the Indian child, the parent, or the Tribe “petition any court of competent jurisdiction” to “invalidate” an order that violated key provisions of ICWA. § . Of special rele- vance, an Indian parent consenting to adoption has two years to withdraw consent on “the grounds that consent was ob- tained through fraud or duress.” § (d). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring ICWA is not a panacea. While “[a]dopting ICWA marked one step toward upholding tribal rights,” “many [S]tates” have struggled with “effective implementation.” Maine Wabanaki–State Child Welfare Truth & Reconciliation Com- mission, Beyond the Mandate: Continuing the Conversation (). Others resist ICWA outright, as the present liti- gation by Texas attests. See generally M. Fletcher & W. Singel, Lawyering the Indian Child Welfare Act, Mich. L. Rev. (). Still, the statute “has achieved consid- erable success in stemming unwarranted removals by state offcials of Indian children from their families and communi- ties.” B. Atwood, Flashpoints Under the Indian Child Wel- fare Act: Toward a New Understanding of State Court Re- sistance, Emory L. J. , (). And considerable research “[s]ubsequent to Congress's enactment of ICWA” has “borne out the statute's basic premise”—that “[i]t is gen- erally in the best interests of Indian children to be raised in Indian homes.” Brief for American Psychological Associa- tion et al. as Amici Curiae –. II This history leads us to the question at the heart of today's cases: Did Congress lack the constitutional authority to enact ICWA, as Texas and the private plaintiffs contend? In truth, that is not one question, but many. What authori- ties do the Tribes possess under our Constitution? What power does Congress have with respect to tribal relations? What does that mean for States? And how do those princi- ples apply in a context like adoption, which involves compet- ing claims of federal, state, and tribal authority? Answering these questions requires a full view of the Indian-law bargain struck in our Constitution. Under the terms of that bargain, Indian Tribes remain independent sovereigns with the exclusive power to manage their inter- nal matters. As a corollary of that sovereignty, States have Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring virtually no role to play when it comes to Indian affairs. To preserve this equilibrium between Tribes and States, the Constitution vests in the federal government a set of potent (but limited and enumerated) powers. In particular, the In- dian Commerce Clause gives Congress a robust (but not ple- nary) power to regulate the ways in which non-Indians may interact with Indians. To understand each of those pieces— and how they ft together—is to understand why the Indian Child Welfare Act must survive today's legal challenge. This is all much more straightforward than it sounds. Take each piece of the puzzle in turn. Then, with the full constitutional picture assembled, return to ICWA's provi- sions. By then, you will have all you need to see why the Court upholds the law. A Start with the question how our Constitution approaches tribal sovereignty. In the years before Jamestown, Indian Tribes existed as “self-governing sovereign political commu- nities.” United States v. Wheeler, U. S. , – (). They employed “sophisticated governmental mod- els,” formed “[c]onfederacies” with one another, and often engaged in decisionmaking by “consensual agreement.” B. Pritzker, Native Americans: An Encyclopedia of History, Culture, and Peoples xii (). When the British crossed the Atlantic, they brought with them their own legal understandings. A seasoned colonial power, Britain was no stranger to the idea of “tributary” and “feudatory” states. E. de Vattel, Law of Nations – () (Vattel). And it was a long-held tenet of international law that such entities do not “cease to be sovereign and inde- pendent” even when subject to military conquest—at least not “so long as self government and sovereign and independ- ent authority are left in the[ir] administration.” Worcester v. Georgia, Pet. , (). For that reason, early “history furnishes no example, from the frst settlement of our country, of any attempt on the part of the [C]rown to Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring interfere with the internal affairs of the Indians.” Id., at ; see also Vattel . Instead, the “settled state of things” refected the British view that Tribes were “nations capable of maintaining the relations of peace and war; [and] of gov- erning themselves.” Pet., at –. Consistent with that understanding, the British regarded “the Indians as owners of their land.” S. Banner, How the Indians Lost Their Land: Law and Power on the Frontier (). Britain often purchased land from Tribes (at least nominally) and predicated its system of legal title on those purchases. Ibid. The Crown entered into all manner of treaties with the Tribes too—just as it did with fellow Euro- pean powers. See, e. g., Letter from Gov. Burnet to Lords of Trade, Nov. , , concerning the Great Treaty of Between the Five Nations, the Mahicans, and the Colonies of New York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, in Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of New York – (E. O'Callaghan ed. ); Deed in Trust From Three of the Five Nations of Indians to the King in , in id., at –; A Treaty Held at the Town of Lancaster with the Indians of the Six Nations in , in Indian Treaties, Printed by Benjamin Franklin, –, pp. – (). Ultimately, “the American Revolution replaced that legal framework with a similar one.” Oklahoma v. Castro- Huerta, U. S. –––, ––– () (Gorsuch, J., dissenting). The newly independent Nation wasted no time entering into treaties of its own—in no small part to secure its continued existence against external threats. See, e. g., Articles of Agreement and Confederation, Sept. , , Stat. . In practice, too, “[t]he new Republic” broadly recognized “the sovereignty of Indian [T]ribes,” even if it did so “sometimes grudgingly.” W. Quinn, Federal Acknowledgment of Ameri- can Indian Tribes: The Historical Development of a Legal Concept, Am. J. L. Hist. , (). As we will see, the period under the Articles of Confederation was marred by signifcant confict, driven by state and individual intru- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring sions on tribal land. But the Constitution that followed re- fected an understanding that Tribes enjoy a power to rule themselves that no other governmental body—state or fed- eral—may usurp. Several constitutional provisions prove the point. One sure tell is the federal government's treaty power. See Art. II, § , cl. . Because the United States “adopted and sanctioned the previous treaties with the Indian nations, [it] consequently admit[ted the Tribes'] rank among those pow- ers who are capable of making treaties.” Worcester, Pet., at . Similarly, the Commerce Clause vests in Congress the power to “regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,” “among the several States,” and “with the Indian Tribes,” Art. I, § , cl. —conferrals of authority with respect to three separate sorts of sovereign entities that do not entail the power to eliminate any of them. Even beyond that, the Con- stitution exempts from the apportionment calculus “Indians not taxed.” § , cl. . This formula “ratifed the legal treat- ment of tribal Indians [even] within the [S]tates as separate and sovereign peoples, who were simply not part of the state polities.” R. Clinton, The Dormant Indian Commerce Clause, Conn. L. Rev. , () (Clinton ). (The Fourteenth Amendment would later reprise this lan- guage, Amdt. , § , confrming both the enduring sover- eignty of Tribes and the bedrock principle that Indian status is a “political rather than racial” classifcation, Morton v. Mancari, U. S. , , n. ().) Given these express provisions, the early conduct of the political branches comes as little surprise. From the begin- ning, the “Washington Administration acknowledged consid- erable Native autonomy.” G. Ablavsky, Beyond the Indian Commerce Clause, Yale L. J. , () (Ablavsky ). Henry Knox, President Washington's Secretary of War, described the Tribes as akin to “foreign nations, not as the subjects of any particular [S]tate.” Letter to G. Wash- ington (July , ), in Papers of George Washington: Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring Presidential Series – (D. Twohig ed. ). Thomas Jefferson spoke of them as maintaining “full, undivided, and independent sovereignty as long as they chose to keep it,” commenting also “that this might be for ever.” Notes on Cabinet Opinions (Feb. , ), in Papers of Thomas Jefferson – (J. Catanzariti ed. ). This view would later feature in a formal opinion of the Attorney General, who explained that, “[s]o long as a [T]ribe exists . . . its title and possession are sovereign and exclusive; and there exists no authority to enter upon their lands, for any purpose what- ever, without their consent.” Op. Atty. Gen. , (). What went for the Executive went for Congress. In the frst few decades of the Nation's existence, the Legislative Branch passed a battery of statutes known as the Indian Trade and Intercourse Acts. See, e. g., Act of July , , ch. , Stat. ; Act of Mar. , , ch. , Stat. ; Act of May , , ch. , Stat. ; Act of Mar. , , ch. , Stat. ; Act of June , , Stat. . Without exception, those Acts “either explicitly or implicitly regu- lated only the non-Indians who venture[d] into Indian coun- try to deal with Indians,” and “did not purport to regulate the [T]ribes or their members” in any way. R. Clinton, There is No Federal Supremacy Clause for Indian Tribes, Ariz. St. L. J. , () (Clinton ). This Court recognized many of these same points in its early cases. For example, in Worcester, the State of Georgia sought to seize Cherokee lands, abolish the Tribe and its laws, and apply its own criminal laws to tribal lands. Pet., at –. Holding Georgia's laws unconstitutional, this Court acknowledged that Tribes remain “independent politi- cal communities, retaining their original natural rights.” Id., at . While “necessarily dependent on” the United States, id., at , under “the settled doctrine of the law of nations,” the Court held, “a weaker power does not surren- der its independence—its right to self-government, by asso- HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring ciating with a stronger and taking its protection,” id., at – . The Cherokee, like other Tribes, remained “a distinct community occupying its own territory . . . in which the laws of [the State] can have no force, and which the citizens of [that State] have no right to enter, but with the assent of the [Tribe] themselves, or in conformity with treaties, and with the acts of [C]ongress.” Id., at . Justice McLean, con- curring, put it succinctly: “All the rights which belong to self- government have been recognized as vested in [the Tribes].” Id., at . In the end, President Jackson refused to abide by the Court's decision in Worcester, precipitating the Trail of Tears. He is quoted as saying: “ `John Marshall has made his decision; now let him enforce it.' ” F. Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law (). But just as this Court had no power to enforce its judgment, President Jackson had no power to erase its reasoning. So the rule of Worcester persisted in courts of law, unchanged, for decades. Recog- nizing the inherent sovereignty of Tribes, this Court held that States could not tax Indian land. See, e. g., The Kansas Indians, Wall. , – (); The New York Indians, Wall. , – (). It held that the Fourteenth Amendment did not apply on Indian land. See Elk v. Wil- kins, U. S. , – (). And it sharply limited even the power of the federal government to prosecute crimes between Indians on Indian land where the Tribe had stepped in to resolve the dispute. See Ex parte Crow Dog, U. S. , (). Nor did later developments call this original understand- ing into doubt. To be sure, in , Congress declared that Tribes (prospectively) are no longer parties “with whom the United States may contract by treaty.” Act of Mar. , , Stat. , codifed at U. S. C. § ; but see United States v. Lara, U. S. , () (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (describing the Act as “constitutionally suspect”); M. Pearl, Originalism and the Indians, Tulane L. Rev. , Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring – () (Pearl) (similar). But the sponsors of that Act sought only to increase the role of bicameral legislation in managing Indian affairs. See Antoine v. Washington, U. S. , – (). The law did not purport to “inval- idat[e] or impai[r]” any existing “obligation of any treaty law- fully made and ratifed.” U. S. C. § . And the law did not abridge, nor could it have validly abridged, the long- settled view of tribal sovereignty. In fact, the United States proceeded to enter into roughly further executive agreements with the Tribes practically indistinguishable from the treaties that came before. See generally V. Delo- ria & R. DeMallie, Documents of American Indian Diplo- macy: Treaties, Agreements, and Conventions, – (). Keep this original understanding of tribal sover- eignty in mind. It provides an essential point of framing. B Just as the Constitution safeguards the sovereign author- ity of Tribes, it comes with a “concomitant jurisdictional limit on the reach of state law” over Indian affairs. McCla- nahan v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, U. S. , (). As this Court has consistently recognized, “[t]he policy of leaving Indians free from state jurisdiction and control is deeply rooted in the Nation's history.” Rice v. Olson, U. S. , (). Instead, responsibility for managing interactions with the Tribes rests exclusively with the fed- eral government. To appreciate this point, walk through time once more. Since the frst days of British rule, the Crown oversaw— and retained the power to dictate—the Colonies' engagement with the Indian Tribes. See Clinton , at –. In response to a pattern of confict arising out of colonial intru- sion on tribal land, that supervision grew increasingly exact- ing. Ibid.; see also R. Clinton, The Proclamation of : Colonial Prelude to Two Centuries of Federal-State Confict Over the Management of Indian Affairs, B. U. L. Rev. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring , – () (Clinton ). In , for example, a British royal commission rejected an effort by the colony of Connecticut to exercise independent jurisdiction over a Tribe within its borders. Id., at –. The decision rested on a now-familiar logic: “The Indians, though living amongst the king's subjects in these countries, are a sepa- rate and distinct people from them, they are treated with as such, they have a polity of their own, they make peace and war with any nation of Indians when they think ft, without controul from the English.” Opinion of Comm'r Horsman- den, Aug. , , in Governor and Company of Connecticut, and Moheagan Indians, By Their Guardians (). The mere suggestion of colonial management of tribal rela- tions catalyzed further “centralization of oversight and con- trol of colonial Indian regulation by the British government,” culminating in the Proclamation of . Clinton , at . That proclamation announced the Crown's intent to manage all “land cessions, diplomatic and other relations, and trade with the Indian [T]ribes,” and to displace contrary co- lonial practice. Id., at . Britain never had a chance to iron out the kinks of that approach before the Revolutionary War broke out. But “[i]mmediately prior to , the stage was set” for “complete imperial control over the management of Indian matters.” Id., at . After the Revolution, the Articles of Confederation gave the newly formed “[U]nited [S]tates . . . the sole and exclu- sive right and power of . . . managing all affairs with the Indians, not members of any of the [S]tates.” Art. IX (). In providing that grant of authority, the Articles' drafters may have meant to codify the centralized approach the British had pursued. But the “byzantine” document the drafters created, Ablavsky , at , came with a pair of easily exploited loopholes. First, the language of its Indian affairs clause allowed some to claim that various Tribes were “ `members' ” of the States and thus “exclusively or princi- pally subject to state legislative control.” Clinton , at Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring , . Second, owing to a fear that the phrase “sole and exclusive” could give the misimpression that States lacked power to manage their own affairs, the Articles' draft- ers added another clause stipulating that “the legislative right of any [S]tate within its own limits be not infringed or violated.” Art. IX. Taken literally, that provision meant only that the Articles left to States what belonged to the States and to the Tribes what belonged to the Tribes. But some States saw in that language too an opportunity to as- sert their own control. See Clinton , at , , –, –. The result? A season of confict brought about by state and private encroachments on tribal authority. G. Ablavsky, The Savage Constitution, Duke L. J. , – () (Ablavsky ). By the time the Constitutional Conven- tion rolled around, “Indian uprisings had occurred . . . in the Ohio River Valley and Virginia,” “the Creeks and Georgia were on the brink of open warfare,” and there was signifcant turmoil “on the western frontier.” Clinton , at . Those events were not lost on the framers. As they debated how to broker enduring peace, two predominant schools of thought emerged. Madison and his followers favored pre- venting intrusions on Indian land and interests; Hamilton and his adherents favored resort to military might. Ablav- sky , at –. Both sides, however, found agree- ment on the “need for a stronger federal government” pres- ence, without the impediment of state interference. Id., at . Even as the Constitutional Convention assembled, a com- mittee of the Continental Congress noted that it “had been long understood and pretty well ascertained” that the Crown's absolute powers to “manag[e] Affairs with the Indi- ans” passed in its “entire[ty] to the Union” following Inde- pendence, meaning that “[t]he laws of the State can have no effect upon a [T]ribe of Indians or their lands within the limits of the [S]tate so long as that [T]ribe is independent.” HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring Journals of the Continental Congress –, p. (R. Hill ed. ). That had to be so, the committee ob- served, for the same reason that individual States could not enter treaties with foreign powers: “[T]he Indian [T]ribes are justly considered the common friends or enemies of the United States, and no particular [S]tate can have an exclu- sive interest in the management of Affairs with any of the [T]ribes.” Id., at . This understanding found its way directly into the text of the Constitution. The fnal version assigned the newly formed federal government a bundle of powers that encom- passed “all that is required for the regulation of [the Na- tion's] intercourse with the Indians.” Worcester, Pet., at . By contrast, the Constitution came with no indication that States had any similar sort of power. Indeed, it omit- ted the nettlesome language in the Articles about the “legis- lative right” of States. Not only that. The Constitution's express exclusion of “Indians not taxed” from the apportion- ment formula, Art. I, § , cl. , threw cold water on some States' attempts to claim that Tribes fell within their terri- tory—and therefore their control. And, lest any doubt re- main, the Constitution divested States of any power to “enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation.” § , cl. . By removing that diplomatic power, the Constitution's design also divested them of the leading tool for managing tribal relations at that time. The Constitution's departure from the Articles' articula- tion was praised by many and criticized by some. Federal- ists (such as James Madison) applauded the fact that the new federal government would be “unfettered” by the Articles' constraints. The Federalist No. , p. (C. Rossiter ed. ). Certain Anti-Federalists (including Abraham Yates, Jr.) disfavored the “tota[l] surrender into the hands of Con- gress [of] the management and regulation of the Indian af- fairs.” Letter to Citizens of New York (June –, ), in Documentary History of the Ratifcation of the Consti- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring tution , (J. Kaminski et al. eds. ) (emphasis added). At bottom, however, no one questioned that the Constitution took a view about where the power to manage Indian affairs would reside in the future. And no one doubted that it selected the federal government, not the States. Early practice confrmed this understanding. “The Wash- ington Administration insisted that the federal government enjoyed exclusive constitutional authority” over managing relationships with the Indian Tribes. Ablavsky , at . As President Washington put it, the federal govern- ment “possess[ed] the only authority of regulating an inter- course with [the Tribes], and redressing their grievances.” Letter to T. Miffin (Sept. , ), in The Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series (D. Twohig ed. ) (emphasis added). Even “many state offcials agreed” with President Washington's assessment. Ablavsky , at . South Carolina Governor Charles Pinckney acknowl- edged that “the sole management of India[n] affairs” is “com- mitted” to “the general Government.” Letter to G. Wash- ington (Dec. , ), in Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series (D. Twohig ed. ). Other leading proponents of States' rights reluctantly drew the same con- clusion. “[U]nder the present Constitution,” Thomas Jeffer- son lamented, States lack any “right to Treat with the In- dians without the consent of the General Government.” Letter to H. Knox (Aug. , ), in Papers of Thomas Jefferson (C. Cullen ed. ). For its part, this Court understood the absence of state authority over tribal matters as a natural corollary of Tribes' inherent sovereignty. Precisely because Tribes exist as a “distinct community,” this Court concluded in Worcester, the “laws of [States] can have no force” as to them. Pet., at . States could no more prescribe rules for Tribes than they could legislate for one another or a foreign sovereign. More than that, this Court recognized that “[t]he whole in- Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring tercourse between the United States and [each Tribe], is by our [C]onstitution and laws, vested in the government of the United States.” Ibid. (emphasis added). State laws cannot “interfere forcibly with the relations established between the United States and [an Indian Tribe], the regulation of which, according to the settled principles of our [C]onstitu- tion, are committed exclusively to the government of the [U]nion.” Ibid. (emphasis added). That principle, too, has endured. No one can contest the “ `historic immunity from state and local control' ” that the Tribes enjoy, nor the per- missibility of constitutional provisions enacted to protect the Tribes' “sovereign status.” New Mexico v. Mescalero Apache Tribe, U. S. , (). Tuck that point away too. C We now know that, at the founding, the Tribes retained their sovereignty. We know also that States have virtually no role to play in managing interactions with Tribes. From this, it follows that “[t]he only restriction on the power” of Tribes “in respect to [their] internal affairs” arises when their actions “confict with the Constitution or laws of the United States.” Roff v. Burney, U. S. , (). In cases like that, the Constitution provides, federal law must prevail. See Art. VI. This creates a hydraulic rela- tionship between federal and tribal authority. The more the former expands, the more the latter shrinks. All of which raises the question: What powers does the federal govern- ment possess with respect to Tribes? Because the federal government enjoys only “limited” and “enumerated powers,” we look to the Constitution's text. McCulloch v. Maryland, Wheat. , (). Notably, our founding document does not include a plenary federal authority over Tribes. Nor was this an accident, at least not in the fnal accounting. The framers considered a gen- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring eral Indian Affairs Clause but left it on the cutting-room foor. See L. Updike Toler, The Missing Indian Affairs Clause, U. Chi. L. Rev. , – () (Toler). That choice refects an important insight about the Constitution's Indian-law bargain: “Without an Indian affairs power,” any assertion of unbounded federal authority over the Tribes is “constitutionally wanting.” Id., at . Instead of a free-foating Indian-affairs power, the framers opted for a bundle of federal authorities tailored to “the regulation of [the Nation's] intercourse with the Indians.” Worcester, Pet., at . In keeping with the framers' faith in the separation of powers, they chose to split those authori- ties “between the [E]xecutive and the [L]egislature.” Toler . “The residue of Indian affairs power”—all those Indian-related powers not expressly doled out by the Consti- tution—remained the province of “the sovereign [T]ribes.” Id., at . What was included in the federal government's bundle of enumerated powers? In the early years, the most impor- tant component was the authority to “make Treaties” with the Tribes. Art. II, § , cl. . But other provisions also fa- cilitated the management of Indian relations. The Constitu- tion vested in Congress the power to “declare War” against the Tribes. Art. I, § , cl. . It gave Congress authority to “dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States,” allowing it considerable power over Indians on federal territory. Art. IV, § , cl. . The Constitution also authorized Congress to employ its spending power to divert funds toward Tribes. Art. I, § , cl. . Where all those powers came up short, the Constitution afforded the federal government the power to “regulate Commerce with foreign Nations and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.” § , cl. (emphasis added). Much of mod- ern federal Indian law rests on that commerce power. It demands a closer look. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring Contained in a single sentence, what we sometimes call “the” Commerce Clause is really three distinct Clauses rolled into one: a Foreign Commerce Clause, an Interstate Commerce Clause, and an Indian Commerce Clause. To be sure, those Clauses share the same lead word: “Commerce.” And, viewed in isolation, that word might appear to sweep narrowly—encompassing activities like “selling, buying, and bartering, as well as transporting for these purposes.” United States v. Lopez, U. S. , – () (Thomas, J., concurring) (citing founding-era defnitions). But it is “well established” that the individual Commerce Clauses have “very different applications,” Cotton Petro- leum Corp. v. New Mexico, U. S. , (), a point the framers themselves acknowledged, see, e. g., Letter from E. Randolph to G. Washington (Feb. , ), in Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series , – (D. Twohig ). Start with the word “Commerce.” From the Nation's ear- liest days, Indian commerce was considered “a special sub- ject with a defnite content,” quite “distinct and specialized” from other sorts of “commerce.” A. Abel, The Commerce Clause in the Constitutional Convention and in Contempo- rary Comment, Minn. L. Rev. , – (). A sur- vey of founding-era usage confrms that the term “Com- merce,” when describing relations with Indians, took on a broader meaning than simple economic exchange. See Ab- lavsky , at – (compiling primary sources); Brief for Gregory Ablavsky as Amicus Curiae –; App. to id., at – (same); see also A. Amar, America's Constitution: A Biography (). Instead, the word was used as a “term of art,” Pearl , to encompass all manner of “bilat- eral relations with the [T]ribes,” Clinton , at ; see also Toler (noting that “Indian commerce” was a “legal ter[m] of art” that was “informed by the practicalities of In- dian affairs”). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring This special usage likely emerged out of an international- law idea widely shared “at the time of the founding”: When dealing with a foreign sovereign, the “commercial and non- commercial aspects” of bilateral interactions were “inevita- bly intertwined” because any intercourse carried potential diplomatic consequences and could even lead to war. J. Bal- kin, Commerce, Mich. L. Rev. , () (Balkin); see also Ablavsky , at – (demonstrating that “trade with the Indians was understood almost solely through this political and diplomatic lens”); Clinton , at – (ob- serving that, at the founding, Indian “trade” was “inter- twined” with concerns of “peace and diplomacy” and with the threat of “war”). Nor was that a speculative possibility when it came to Tribes. As we have seen, even the noncom- mercial conduct of settlers in the early years was a “contin- ual source of violent confict [with] Indians,” partially moti- vating the move away from the Articles of Confederation framework. M. Fletcher & L. Jurss, Tribal Jurisdiction—A Historical Bargain, Md. L. Rev. , (); see also Ablavsky , at –. At least two terms in the Commerce Clause confrm this special usage. For one thing, the Constitution speaks of “Commerce . . . among” when discussing interstate dealings, but “Commerce with” when addressing dealings with tribal and foreign sovereigns. Art. I, § , cl. (emphases added). This language suggests a shared framework for Congress's Indian and foreign commerce powers and a different one for its interstate commerce authority. See R. Monette, A New Federalism for Indian Tribes: The Relationship Between the United States and Tribes in Light of Our Federalism and Republican Democracy, U. Toledo L. Rev. , , n. (). More than that, the term “with” suggests that Con- gress has the authority to manage “all interactions or affairs . . . with the Indian [T]ribes” and foreign sovereigns—wher- ever those interactions or affairs may occur. Balkin . By contrast, the term “among” found in the Interstate Com- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring merce Clause most naturally suggests that Congress may regulate only activities that “extend in their operation be- yond the bounds of a particular [S]tate” and into another. Id., at . All this goes a long way toward explaining why “Congress's powers to regulate domestic commerce are more constrained” than its powers to regulate Indian and foreign commerce. Id., at . For another thing, as nouns, “States” and “Indian Tribes” are not alike—and they were not alike at the founding. “States” generally referred then, as it does today, to a collec- tion of territorial entities. Not so “Tribes.” That term necessarily referred to collections of individuals. See C. Green, Tribes, Nations, States: Our Three Commerce Pow- ers, Pa. St. L. Rev. , , – () (Green); see also W. Crosskey, Politics and the Constitution in the His- tory of the United States (). Want proof? Dust off most any founding-era dictionary and look up the defnition of “Tribe.” See, e. g., J. Ash, The New and Complete Dic- tionary of the English Language () (“[a] family, a body of the people distinguished by family or fortune”); S. John- son, A Dictionary of the English Language (th ed. ) (“[a] di[s]tinct body of the people as divided by family or for- tune, or any other characteri[s]tick”); T. Dyche, A New Gen- eral English Dictionary (th ed. ) (“the particular de- scendants or people [s]prung from [s]ome noted head, or a collective number of people in a colony”); N. Bailey, An Uni- versal Etymological English Dictionary (d ed. ) (“a [c]ompany of [p]eople dwelling together in the [s]ame [w]ard or [l]iberty”). This observation sheds light on why ordinary speakers use the two terms differently. It explains, for instance, why it is grammatical to say you are vacationing “in Colorado,” but not to say you are vacationing “in Navajo.” It explains why it is sensible to say you are meeting “with some Cherokee,” but not to say you are meeting “with some New Jersey.” But this point also helps us make sense of why the Legisla- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring tive Branch may regulate commerce with Indian Tribes dif- ferently than it may regulate commerce among the States. Because Tribes are collections of people, the Indian Com- merce Clause endows Congress with the “authority to regu- late commerce with Native Americans” as individuals. McGirt v. Oklahoma, U. S. –––, ––– (). By contrast, Congress's power under the Interstate Commerce Clause operates only on commerce that involves “more States than one.” Gibbons v. Ogden, Wheat. , (). In other words, commerce that takes place “among” (or between) two or more territorial units, and not just any commerce that involves some member of some State. See Green –. This Court has long appreciated these points of distinction. For example, in United States v. Holliday, Wall. (), the Court upheld a federal statute that prohibited the sale of alcohol by non-Indians to Indians—on or off tribal land. Id., at –. Giving the Indian Commerce Clause its most natural reading, the Court concluded that the power to regulate commerce with Indian Tribes must mean the power to regulate “commerce with the individuals composing those [T]ribes.” Id., at (emphasis added). For that reason, too, “[t]he locality of the [commerce could] have nothing to do with the [scope of the] power.” Id., at ; see also Hen- derson v. Mayor of New York, U. S. , () (quot- ing Holliday and echoing this point in the context of the Foreign Commerce Clause). More than that, Holliday rec- ognized that this focus on individuals means that Indian com- merce must cover “something more” than just economic ex- change. Wall., at (internal quotation marks omitted). While it includes “buying and selling and exchanging com- modities,” it also extends to the entire “intercourse between the citizens of the United States and those [T]ribes.” Ibid. That “intercourse,” the Court recognized, is “another branch of commerce” with Indians, “and a very important one” at that. Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring If the Constitution's text left any uncertainty about the scope of Congress's Indian commerce power, early practice liquidated it. The First Congress adopted the initial Indian Trade and Intercourse Act, which prohibited the “sale of lands made by any Indians” to non-Indians absent a public treaty. Act of July , , ch. , § , Stat. . The law also extended criminal liability to non-Indians who “com- mit[ted] any crime upon, or trespass against, the person or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian” in Indian country. § , ibid. The frst of these provisions arguably addressed a narrow question of commerce. But the second “plainly regulated noneconomic” interaction. A. Amar, America's Constitution and the Yale School of Constitu- tional Interpretation, Yale L. J. , , n. (). Despite that fact, the Act (and its successors) were “not controversial exercises of congressional power.” N. New- ton, Federal Power Over Indians: Its Sources, Scope, and Limitations, U. Pa. L. Rev. , , n. (). Any doubt about their validity “would have been quieted by the [C]ommerce Clause's commitment of commerce with the In- dian [T]ribes to Congress.” Ibid. As Justice McLean (ri- ding circuit) recognized, punishing non-Indians for “commit- ting violence upon the persons or property of the Indians,” fell “clearly within the scope of the power to regulate com- merce with the Indian [T]ribes.” United States v. Bailey, F. Cas. , (No. ,) (CC Tenn. ). Of course, the kinds of criminal trespasses Congress regulated as early as were not themselves commercial. But a trespass against even one individual Indian could disrupt commerce with that individual. See Green –, and n. . By ex- tension, such a trespass could disrupt dealings with other members of the Tribe and with other allied Tribes too. See Balkin –. Recognizing this, the framers entrusted Con- gress with the power previously exercised by the British Parliament to “restrain the disorderly and licentious from intrusions” by non-Indians against even individual Indians— Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring all to preserve functioning channels of trade and intercourse “with the Indians.” Worcester, Pet., at , . If Congress's powers under the Indian Commerce Clause are broader than those it enjoys under the Interstate Com- merce Clause, “broader” does not mean “plenary.” Even the federal government's “power to control and manage” re- lations with the Tribes under the Indian Commerce Clause comes with “pertinent constitutional restrictions.” United States v. Creek Nation, U. S. , (). Congress cannot, for example, expand the scope of its own power by arbitrarily labeling non-Indians as Indians. See United States v. Sandoval, U. S. , (). Nor can it regu- late in peripherally related felds merely by identifying some incidental connection to non-Indians' dealings with Indians. Instead, Congress's actions must still bear a valid “nexus” to Indian commerce to withstand constitutional challenge. Lopez, U. S., at (quoting United States v. Bass, U. S. , ()). As we have seen, too, “the scope of congressional authority” over the Tribes under the Indian Commerce Clause is “best construed as a negative one.” Pearl . Its text “limits the legislative reach to creating federal restrictions concerning what United States citizens and States may do in the context of Indian [T]ribes.” Ibid. Nothing in the Clause grants Congress the affrmative power to reassign to the federal government inherent sovereign au- thorities that belong to the Tribes. In that way, the Indian Commerce Clause confrms, rather than abridges, principles of tribal sovereignty. As it must. It is “inconceivable” that a power to regulate non-Indians' dealings with Indians could be used to “dives[t Tribes] of the right of self-government.” Worcester, Pet., at . Oth- erwise, a power to manage relations with a party would be- come an instrument for “annihilating the political existence of one of the parties.” Ibid. No one in the Nation's forma- Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring tive years thought that could be the law. They understood that Congress could no more use its commerce powers to legislate away a Tribe than it could a State or a foreign sov- ereign. Cf. National League of Cities v. Usery, U. S. , (); Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, U. S. , – (); Lane County v. Oregon, Wall. , – (). The framers appreciated, too, that they possessed no more “authority to delegate to the national government power to regulate the [T]ribes directly” than they possessed authority to “delegate power to the federal government over other peoples who were not part of the federal union.” Clinton , at ; see also R. Barsh, Book Review, Felix S. Cohen's Handbook of Federal Indian Law, ed., Wash. L. Rev. , (). D As we have now seen, the Constitution refected a care- fully considered balance between tribal, state, and federal powers. That scheme predated the founding and it per- sisted long after. It is not, however, the balance this Court always maintained in the years since. More than a little fault for that fact lies with a doctrinal misstep. In the late th century, this Court misplaced the original meaning of the Indian Commerce Clause. That error sent this Court's Indian-law jurisprudence into a tailspin from which it has only recently begun to recover. Understanding that error— and the steps this Court has taken to correct it—are the last missing pieces of the puzzle. In , during the period of assimilationist federal policy, Congress enacted the Indian Major Crimes Act, § , Stat. . Among other things, that law extended federal-court jurisdiction over various crimes committed by Indians against Indians on tribal lands. Ibid. In United States v. Kagama, U. S. (), this Court upheld the constitu- tionality of that Act. In the process, though, it stepped off the doctrinal trail. Instead of examining the text and his- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring tory of the Indian Commerce Clause, the Court offered a free-foating and purposivist account of the Constitution, de- scribing it as extending broad “power [to] the General Gov- ernment” over tribal affairs. Id., at . Building on that move, the Court would later come to describe the federal power over the Tribes as “plenary.” See, e. g., Winton v. Amos, U. S. , (); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, U. S. , (). Perhaps the Court meant well. Surely many of its so- called “plenary power” cases reached results explainable under a proper reading of the Constitution's enumerated powers. Maybe the turn of phrase even made some sense: Congress's power with regard to the Tribes is “plenary” in that it leaves no room for State involvement. See Ablavsky , at (“[T]he Court use[d] the term [plenary] inter- changeably with `exclusive' ”). But as sometimes happens when this Court elides text and original meaning in favor of broad pronouncements about the Constitution's purposes, the plenary-power idea baked in the prejudices of the day. Cf. Plessy v. Ferguson, U. S. (). The Court sug- gested that the federal government's total power over the Tribes derived from its supposedly inherent right to “enforce its laws” over “th[e] remnants of a race once powerful, now weak.” Kagama, U. S., at –. Of course, nothing of the sort follows from “a reasoned analysis derived from the text [or] history . . . of the United States Constitution.” Clinton , at . Instead, the plenary-power idea “con- stituted an unprincipled assertion of raw federal authority.” Ibid. It rested on nothing more than judicial claims about putative constitutional purposes that aligned with contempo- rary policy preferences. Nor was anachronistic language the only consequence of this Court's abandonment of the Constitution's original meaning. During what has been called the “high plenary power era of U. S. Indian law,” this Court sometimes took the word “plenary” pretty literally. S. Cleveland, Powers Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring Inherent in Sovereignty: Indians, Aliens, Territories, and the Nineteenth Century Origins of Plenary Power Over For- eign Affairs, Texas L. Rev. , () (Cleveland). It assumed that Congress possesses a “virtually unlimited au- thority to regulate [T]ribes” in every respect. M. Steele, Plenary Power, Political Questions, and Sovereignty in In- dian Affairs, UCLA L. Rev. , (); see Cleveland –. Perhaps most notably, the Court even suggested that Congress's “plenary authority” might allow it to “limit, modify, or eliminate the powers of local self-government which the [T]ribes otherwise possess.” Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, U. S. , – (). It is an “inconceiv- able” suggestion for anyone who takes the Constitution's original meaning seriously. Worcester, Pet., at . The Court's atextual and ahistorical plenary-power move did not just serve to expand the scope of federal power over the Tribes. It also had predictable downstream effects on the relationship between States and Tribes. As Congress assumed new power to intrude on tribal sovereignty, the Constitution's “concomitant jurisdictional limit on the reach of state law” began to wane. McClanahan, U. S., at . It is not hard to draw a through-line between these develop- ments. This Court itself has acknowledged that its plenary- power cases embodied a “trend . . . away from the idea of inherent Indian sovereignty as a bar to state jurisdiction.” Id., at , and n. . It is no coincidence either that this Court's plenary-power jurisprudence emerged in the same era as Indian boarding schools and other assimilationist policies. See D. Moore & M. Steele, Revitalizing Tribal Sovereignty in Treatymaking, N. Y. U. L. Rev. , (). Rather, “[f]ederal bureaucratic control over Indian leadership and governments ran parallel to the government's control over Indian children” during this period. Fletcher & Singel . In- dian boarding schools and other intrusive “federal educa- tional programs . . . could not have been implemented with- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring out federal control of reservation governance.” Ibid. Nor could any of these federal intrusions on internal tribal affairs have been possible without this Court's plenary-power misadventure. I do not mean to overstate the point. Even in the heyday of the plenary-power theory, this Court never doubted that Tribes retain a variety of self-government powers. It has always acknowledged that Tribes are “a separate people, with the power of regulating their internal and social rela- tions.” Kagama, U. S., at –. They may “make their own substantive law in internal matters.” Martinez, U. S., at . They may defne their own membership. Roff, U. S., at . They may set probate rules of their choice. Jones v. Meehan, U. S. , (). And—es- pecially relevant here—they may handle their own family- law matters, Fisher v. District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., U. S. , () (per curiam), and domestic disputes, United States v. Quiver, U. S. , (). But for a period at least, this Court let itself drift from the “basic policy of Worcester,” and with it the Consti- tution's promise of tribal sovereignty. Williams v. Lee, U. S. , (). Doubtless, too, the rise of the plenary-power theory in- jected incoherence into our Indian-law jurisprudence. Many scholars have commented on it. See, e. g., P. Frickey, Doc- trine, Context, Institutional Relationships, and Commentary: The Malaise of Federal Indian Law Through the Lens of Lone Wolf, Tulsa L. Rev. , () (describing our doc- trine as “riddled with . . . inconsistency”); F. Pommersheim, A Path Near the Clearing: An Essay on Constitutional Ad- judication in Tribal Courts, Gonz. L. Rev. , () (calling our doctrine “bifurcated, if not fully schizophrenic”). So have Members of this Court. Justice Thomas has put the problem well: “[M]uch of the confusion refected in our precedent arises from two largely incompatible” assump- tions: That Congress “can regulate virtually every aspect of HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring the [T]ribes”; and that “Indian [T]ribes retain inherent sov- ereignty.” Lara, U. S., at – (opinion concurring in judgment). Those two propositions of course clash. That is because only one is true. Yes, Tribes retain the inherent sovereignty the Constitution left for them. But no, Con- gress does not possess power to “calibrate `the metes and bounds of tribal sovereignty.' ” Ibid. In recent years, this Court has begun to correct its mis- take. Increasingly, it has emphasized original meaning in constitutional interpretation. See, e. g., Kennedy v. Bremer- ton School Dist., U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (); Ramos v. Louisiana, U. S. –––, –––, ––– – ––– (). In the proc- ess, it has come again to recognize the Indian Commerce Clause provides the federal government only so much “power to deal with the Indian Tribes.” Mancari, U. S., at –. But to date, these corrective steps have not yielded all they should. While this Court has stopped over- reading its own plenary-power precedents, it has yet to re- cover fully the original meaning of the Indian Commerce Clause. Today, the Court takes further steps in the right direction. It recognizes that Congress's powers with respect to the Tribes “derive from the Constitution, not the atmosphere.” Ante, at . It engages in a robust history-driven analysis of the various fonts of congressional authority without rely- ing only on platitudes about plenary power. Ante, at – . It notes that, as an original matter, the Indian Com- merce Clause is “broad” and covers more than garden-vari- ety commercial activity. Ante, at –. In the process, it reaffrms that “ `commerce with the Indian [T]ribes' ” nec- essarily covers commerce with “Indians as individuals.” Ante, at . No less importantly, the Court acknowledges what the fed- eral government cannot do. “Article I gives Congress a se- ries of enumerated powers, not a series of blank checks.” Ante, at . And that means that “Congress's authority to Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Gorsuch, J., concurring legislate with respect to Indians is not unbounded,” but in- stead comes with concrete limitations. Ibid. To resolve the present dispute, the Court understandably sees no need to demarcate those limitations further. But I hope that, in time, it will follow the implications of today's decision where they lead and return us to the original bargain struck in the Constitution—and, with it, the respect for Indian sover- eignty it entails. III With all the historical pieces of this puzzle assembled, only one task remains. You must decide for yourself if ICWA passes constitutional muster. By now, the full picture has come into view and it is easy to see why ICWA must stand. Under our Constitution, Tribes remain independent sovereigns responsible for governing their own affairs. And as this Court has long recognized, domestic law arrangements fall within Tribes' traditional powers of self-governance. See, e. g., Fisher, U. S., at ; Quiver, U. S., at . As “ `a separate people' ” Tribes may “ `regulat[e] their internal and social relations' ” as they wish. Wheeler, U. S., at (quoting Kagama, U. S., at –). In enacting ICWA, Congress af- frmed this understanding. It recognized that “there is no resource that is more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian [T]ribes than their children.” U. S. C. § (). Yet it also recognized that the mass-removal of Indian children by States and other outsiders threatened the “continued existence and integrity of Indian [T]ribes.” Ibid.; see also § (). By setting out to eliminate that practice, Congress sought to preserve the Indian-law bargain written into the Constitution's text by securing the continued viabil- ity of the “third sovereign.” S. O'Connor, Remark, Lessons From the Third Sovereign: Indian Tribal Courts, Tulsa L. J. (). No doubt, ICWA sharply limits the ability of States to im- pose their own family-law policies on tribal members. But Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Gorsuch, J., concurring as we have seen, state intrusions on tribal authority have been a recurring theme throughout American history. See Ablavsky , at –. Long ago, those intrusions led the framers to abandon the loophole-ridden Indian affairs provision in the Articles of Confederation and adopt in the Constitution a different arrangement that commits the man- agement of tribal relations solely to the federal government. Id., at –; see also Clinton , at –. Rec- ognizing as much, this Court has consistently reaffrmed the Tribes' “immunity from state and local control.” Ari- zona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe of Ariz., U. S. , () (internal quotation marks omitted). If that immunity means anything, it must mean that States and oth- ers cannot use their own laws to displace federal Indian policy. Nor is there any serious question that Congress has the power under the Indian Commerce Clause to enact protec- tions against the removal of Indian children. Thankfully, Indian children are not (these days) units of commerce. Cf. Fletcher & Singel – (describing an early practice of enslaving Indian children). But at its core, ICWA restricts how non-Indians (States and private individuals) may engage with Indians. And, as we have seen, that falls in the heart- land of Congress's constitutional authority. Recall that the very first Congresses punished non-Indians who “com- mit[ted] any crime upon [any] friendly Indian.” Act of July , , ch. , § , Stat. . ICWA operates in much the same way. The mass removal of Indian children by States and private parties, no less than a pattern of criminal tres- passes by States and private parties, directly interferes with tribal intercourse. More than that, it threatens the Tribes' “political existence.” Worcester, Pet., at . And at the risk of stating the obvious, Indian commerce is hard to main- tain if there are no Indian communities left to do commerce with. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Kavanaugh, J., concurring IV Often, Native American Tribes have come to this Court seeking justice only to leave with bowed heads and empty hands. But that is not because this Court has no justice to offer them. Our Constitution reserves for the Tribes a place—an enduring place—in the structure of American life. It promises them sovereignty for as long as they wish to keep it. And it secures that promise by divesting States of authority over Indian affairs and by giving the federal government certain signifcant (but limited and enumerated) powers aimed at building a lasting peace. In adopting the Indian Child Welfare Act, Congress exercised that lawful au- thority to secure the right of Indian parents to raise their families as they please; the right of Indian children to grow in their culture; and the right of Indian communities to resist fading into the twilight of history. All of that is in keeping with the Constitution's original design. Justice Kavanaugh, concurring. I join the Court's opinion in full. I write separately to emphasize that the Court today does not address or decide the equal protection issue that can arise when the Indian Child Welfare Act is applied in individual foster care or adop- tion proceedings. See ante, at –, , n. . As the Court explains, the plaintiffs in this federal-court suit against federal parties lack standing to raise the equal protec- tion issue. So the equal protection issue remains undecided. In my view, the equal protection issue is serious. Under the Act, a child in foster care or adoption proceedings may in some cases be denied a particular placement because of the child's race—even if the placement is otherwise deter- mined to be in the child's best interests. And a prospective foster or adoptive parent may in some cases be denied the opportunity to foster or adopt a child because of the prospec- tive parent's race. Those scenarios raise signifcant ques- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting tions under bedrock equal protection principles and this Court's precedents. See Palmore v. Sidoti, U. S. (). Courts, including ultimately this Court, will be able to address the equal protection issue when it is properly raised by a plaintiff with standing—for example, by a pro- spective foster or adoptive parent or child in a case arising out of a state-court foster care or adoption proceeding. See ante, at –, , n. . Justice Thomas, dissenting. These cases concern the Federal Government's attempt to regulate child-welfare proceedings in state courts. That should raise alarm bells. Our Federal “[G]overnment is ac- knowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers,” having only those powers that the Constitution confers expressly or by necessary implication. McCulloch v. Maryland, Wheat. , (). All other powers (like family or criminal law) generally remain with the States. The Fed- eral Government thus lacks a general police power to regu- late state family law. However, in the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), Con- gress ignored the normal limits on the Federal Government's power and prescribed rules to regulate state child custody proceedings in one circumstance: when the child involved happens to be an Indian. As the majority acknowledges, ICWA often overrides state family law by dictating that state courts place Indian children with Indian caretakers even if doing so is not in the child's best interest. See ante, at . It imposes heightened standards before removing Indian children from unsafe environments. See ante, at . And it allows tribes to unilaterally enroll Indian children and then intervene in their custody proceedings. See ante, at , –. In the normal course, we would say that the Federal Gov- ernment has no authority to enact any of this. Yet the ma- jority declines to hold that ICWA is unconstitutional, reason- Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting ing that the petitioners before us have not borne their burden of showing how Congress exceeded its powers. This gets things backwards. When Congress has so clearly in- truded upon a longstanding domain of exclusive state pow- ers, we must ask not whether a constitutional provision pro- hibits that intrusion, but whether a constitutional provision authorizes it. The majority and respondents gesture to a smorgasbord of constitutional hooks to support ICWA; not one of them works. First, the Indian Commerce Clause is about com- merce, not children. See Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, U. S. , – () (Thomas, J., concurring). Second, the Treaty Clause does no work because ICWA is not based on any treaty. Third, the foreign-affairs powers (what the majority terms “structural principles”) inherent in the Fed- eral Government have no application to regulating the do- mestic child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens living within the jurisdiction of States. I would go no further. But, as the majority notes, the Court's precedents have repeatedly referred to a “plenary power” that Congress possesses over Indian affairs, as well as a general “trust” relationship with the Indians. I have searched in vain for any constitutional basis for such a ple- nary power, which appears to have been born of loose lan- guage and judicial ipse dixit. And, even taking the Court's precedents as given, there is no reason to extend this “ple- nary power” to the situation before us today: regulating state-court child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens, who may never have even set foot on Indian lands, merely be- cause the child involved happens to be an Indian. I State courts usually apply state law when resolving child custody issues. This would normally be true for most Indi- ans, too. Today, Indians are citizens of the United States; the vast majority of them do not live on any reservation or Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting Indian lands, but live (as most citizens) on lands that are wholly within a State's jurisdiction. See ch. , Stat. ; Dept. of Health and Human Services, Offce of Minority Health, Profle: American Indian/Alaska Native (Feb. , ), https://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/ browse.aspx?lvl= &lvlid= (% live off Indian lands). Thus, one might ex- pect that when a child custody issue regarding an Indian child arises in a state court, that court would apply the same laws that it would for any other citizen. But ICWA displaces the normal state laws governing child custody when it comes to only one group of citizens: Indian children. ICWA defnes “Indian child” capaciously: It in- cludes not only children who are members of an Indian tribe, but also those children who are merely eligible for member- ship in a tribe and are the biological child of a tribal member. See U. S. C. § (). If the child resides on Indian tribal lands, then the Indian tribal court has jurisdiction. § (a). But, if the child resides within a State, ICWA re- quires state courts to transfer any proceedings to a tribal court, absent “good cause to the contrary,” upon petition by the child's parent, custodian, or tribe. § (b). Even when the state court retains the proceedings, ICWA replaces state law with a strict set of federal rules. For example, if the State fears that a child is suffering physical or sexual abuse, it must clear a set of hurdles before placing the child in foster care or terminating the parent's rights. §§ (a)–(e). If the parent wishes to voluntarily relinquish his or her rights and facilitate an adoption, the child's tribe has a right to intervene “at any point” and to collaterally attack the court's decree. §§ (c), . Moreover, it ap- pears that tribes can enroll children unilaterally, without the parent's consent. Accordingly, even if the biological par- ents, the child, the adoptive parents, and the court all agree on what is best for the child, the tribe can intervene at the eleventh hour, without any consent from the parents or child, and block the proceedings. In fact, that is exactly what hap- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting pened here—the children were unilaterally designated as tribal members by tribes, which then sought to block adop- tions that everyone else thought were best for the children involved. And, even though some of those adoptions have now been fnalized, it appears that the tribes can collaterally attack them for an indefnite period of time. § . Besides these procedural hurdles, ICWA dictates the pref- erences a court must adhere to when deciding where to place the child. In the typical case, the primary consideration would be the best interests of that child. E. g., Tex. Fam. Code Ann. § . (West ); American Law Institute, Principles of the Law of Family Dissolution § . (); Friederwitzer v. Friederwitzer, N. Y. d , , N. E. d , (); Karner v. McMahon, Pa. Super. , , A. d , (). That makes sense; as the majority notes, these children are some of the most vulnera- ble among us, and their interests should be a court's primary concern. See ante, at . But ICWA displaces that stand- ard with its own hierarchy of preferences, requiring a court to prefer any placements with () a member of the child's extended family; () other members of the child's tribe; and () other Indian families of any tribe, anywhere in the coun- try. § (a). Similar rules govern foster-care place- ments. § (b). As the majority notes, these preferences collectively ensure that any Indian from any tribe in the coun- try outranks all non-Indians for adopting and fostering those whom ICWA deems to be Indian children. See ante, at . Again, these detailed rules govern the child custody pro- ceedings of U. S. citizens in state courts only because the child is also either a member of an Indian tribe or merely eligible for membership in a tribe. (The child or parents need never have set foot on Indian lands or have any desire to affliate themselves with a tribe.) The child and his or An analogous law might be if the Federal Government tried to regulate the child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens who are eligible for Russian, Mexican, Israeli, or Irish citizenship. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting her biological parents and relatives can all support an adop- tion, yet ICWA may stand in the way. Normally, we would say that the Federal Government plainly lacks the authority to enact a law like this. The only question is thus whether Congress has some additional au- thority that allows it to regulate the adoption process for U. S. citizens in state courts merely because the child involved happens to be an Indian. To answer that question, I turn first to the text and original meaning of the Constitution. II To explain the original understanding of the Constitution's enumerated powers with regard to Indians, I start with our Nation's Founding-era dealings with Indian tribes. Those early interactions underscore that the Constitution conferred specifc, enumerated powers on the Federal Government which aimed at specifc problems that the Nation faced under the Articles of Confederation. The new Federal Govern- ment's actions with respect to Indian tribes are easily explained by those enumerated powers. Meanwhile, the States continued to enjoy substantial authority with regard to tribes. At each turn, history and constitutional text thus point to a set of enumerated powers that can be applied to Indian tribes—not some sort of amorphous, unlimited power than can be applied to displace all state laws when it comes to Indians. A Before the Revolution, most of the Thirteen Colonies adopted their own regulations governing Indian trade. See Adoptive Couple, U. S., at (Thomas, J., concurring); R. Natelson, The Original Understanding of the Indian Com- merce Clause, Denver U. L. Rev. , , and n. () (Natelson) (collecting laws). These regulations were necessary because colonial traders abused their Indian trad- ing partners, often provoking violent Indian retaliation. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting See Adoptive Couple, U. S., at –; F. Prucha, The Great Father – () (Prucha). Most colonial govern- ments thus imposed licensing systems of some form both to protect Indians and to maintain trading relationships with them. See id., at . However, the colonial laws were not uniform, leading to rivalries between the Colonies, corrup- tion, fraud, and other abuses by traders. Id., at . Then, once the Nation had achieved independence, it “faced innu- merable diffculties,” id., at , from fnding ways to uphold its treaties with foreign nations to economic upheaval at home, J. Marshall, The Life of George Washington – (R. Faulkner & P. Carrese eds. ). Peace with the Indi- ans, rather than conficts sparked by unscrupulous traders, was imperative. Prucha . The Articles of Confederation aimed to meet that need in part by giving Congress “the sole and exclusive right and power of . . . regulating the trade and managing all affairs with the Indians.” Art. IX, cl. . However, that broad power came with two limitations: First, the Indians could not be “members of any of the states.” Ibid. And, second, “the legislative right of any state within its own limits [could not] be infringed or violated.” Ibid. In part because of those limitations, the Articles' solution proved to be less than ideal. As James Madison would later write, the two limits were “obscure and contradictory”; the new Nation had “not yet settled” on which Indians were “members” of a State or which state “legislative right[s]” could not be “infringe[d].” The Federalist No. , pp. – (C. Rossiter ed. ). More broadly, the Confederation Congress lacked any robust authority to enforce congressional laws or treaties (in this or any other domain). For example, it had no power to make laws supreme over state law; there was no executive power For example, though it was not exactly settled what it meant for an Indian to be a “member” of a State, the defnition often turned on whether the Indian paid taxes in or was a citizen of that State. Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, U. S. , , n. () (Thomas, J., concurring). HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting independent of the States; and state offcers were not bound by oath to support the Articles. Under the Articles, Congress entered treaties with vari- ous tribes and sought to maintain a mostly peaceful relation- ship with the Indians—but its authority was undermined at every turn. See Prucha –. Again and again, Congress entered treaties with Indians that established boundary lines and lands set apart for the Indians, and again and again, frontier settlers encroached on Indian territory and com- mitted acts that violated those treaties. Id., at –; F. Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law § .[], pp. – () (Cohen). Such violations were taken seriously; as offenses against “the laws of nations,” they provoked the In- dians and provided “just causes of war.” The Federalist No. , at (J. Jay); see also E. de Vattel, The Law of Nations §§ –, pp. – (J. Chitty ed. ). Yet the Confederation Congress was almost powerless to stop these abuses. After a committee noted confusion about the extent of congressional power over Indian affairs in , Congress had to ask the States for their cooperation in curb- ing the abuses that their own citizens were perpetrating. Prucha –. The weakness of Congress meant, however, that “federal attempts to check state intrusions were often ignored.” Cohen § .[], at . The result was that, by the time of the Constitutional Convention, “the young nation [stood on] the brink of Indian warfare on several fronts.” Ibid. Such a war, feared some Founders, could be destruc- tive to the fedgling Republic. See G. Ablavsky, The Savage Constitution, Duke L. J. , (). The Constitution addressed those problems in several ways. First and most plainly, the Constitution made all fed- eral treaties and laws “the supreme Law of the Land,” not- withstanding the laws of any State. Art. VI. It empow- ered Congress not only to “declare War,” but also to “raise and support Armies,” “provide and maintain a Navy,” and “provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting the Union.” Art. I, § . It enabled Congress to “defne and punish . . . Offences against the Law of Nations.” Ibid. And it granted Congress the authority to “make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper” for carrying out any of those powers. Ibid. The Constitution also provided one power specifc to In- dian tribes: the power “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.” § , cl. . That power, however, came very late in the drafting process and was narrower than initially proposed. See L. Updike Toler, The Missing Indian Affairs Clause, U. Chi. L. Rev. , – () (Toler). At two separate points, James Madison and John Rutledge pro- posed a power to “ `regulate affairs with the Indians,' ” a provision that would have mirrored the Articles. Id., at –, – (emphasis added). Neither proposal re- ceived much debate, and both were rejected. See id., at –. Instead, the Convention opted to include Indian tribes in a provision that had initially been drafted to include only power to “ `regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States.' ” See ibid. The Convention thus expanded the Commerce Clause to the form we know today, empowering Congress to “ `regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.' ” Id., at . On top of those powers, one more warrants note. As I have written previously, the Constitution vests the President with certain foreign-affairs powers including “[t]he executive Power,” which includes a residual authority over war, peace, and foreign interactions. See Art. II; Zivotofsky v. Kerry, U. S. , – () (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part); United States v. Curtiss- Wright Export Corp., U. S. , (). From the start, Presidents have exercised foreign-affairs powers not specifcally enumerated on matters ranging from maintain- ing the peace and issuing passports to communicating with foreign governments and repelling sudden attacks on the Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting Nation. S. Prakash, Imperial From the Beginning – (). In his Neutrality Proclamation, for example, Presi- dent Washington declared that the United States would remain strictly neutral in the then-ongoing war between England and France. See A Proclamation (Apr. , ), reprinted in American State Papers (W. Lowrie & M. Clarke eds. ). Congress supported his Proclamation by imposing criminal penalties on anyone who, among other things, went “beyond the limits or jurisdiction of the United States with intent to be enlisted or entered in the service of any foreign prince or state.” § , Stat. . While this Court has at times debated whether those residual foreign- affairs powers are located in the Executive exclusively or the Federal Government more broadly, see Zivotofsky, U. S., at –, it has long recognized the powers as arising from our constitutional framework and residing at the federal level, see, e. g., Curtiss-Wright, U. S., at . B After the Constitution's ratifcation, the new Federal Gov- ernment exercised its enumerated powers with regard to In- dian tribes. To start, the Government embarked on an era of treaty-making with Indian tribes. See Cohen § .[], at . That treaty-focused policy refected the Washington administration's view that Indian tribes were best dealt with as mostly “foreign nations,” with an eye toward peace lest frontier conficts continue to plague the new Nation. See Letter from H. Knox to G. Washington (July , ), re- printed in Papers of George Washington (W. Abbot ed. ); see also Toler –. Many early treaties thus “were treaties of peace and friendship, often providing for the restoration or exchange of prisoners” or including “mu- tual assistance pacts.” Cohen § .[], at (footnote omit- ted). Others dealt with passports and commercial affairs. Id., at –. And many attested to the tribes' status as Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting dependent nations, with the United States sometimes prom- ising to protect the tribe. Id., at . Unlike the Confederation Congress, the new Federal Gov- ernment was no longer powerless to maintain and enforce its treaties. Exercising its new military powers, the First Congress established a Department of War and vested the Department with authority over “Indian affairs.” See § , Stat. . War Secretary Henry Knox then called for, and obtained, “a line of garrisons in the Indian Country, in order to enforce the treaties and maintain the peace of the fron- tier.” F. Prucha, American Indian Policy in the Formative Years () (Prucha, American Indian Policy). Those garrisons remained for years, working to prevent American settlers from illegally entering Indian country or otherwise stirring up conficts. Id., at –. Meanwhile, President Washington exercised his diplomatic authority to maintain peace on the frontier. For example, when Pennsylvania settlers killed two members of the Sen- eca Nation, Washington appointed a federal agent to meet with the Seneca and “ `give the strongest assurances of the friendship of the United States towards that Tribe; and to make pecuniary satisfaction.' ” Letter to T. Miffin (Sept. , ), reprinted in Papers of George Washington: Presiden- tial Series (D. Twohig ed. ). And, in line with his executive authority to “regulate all intercourse with foreign powers,” see J. Elliot, Debates on the Constitution – (), Washington instructed Pennsylvania's Governor to refer the Seneca “ `to the Executive of the United States, as possessing the only authority of regulating an intercourse with them, and redressing their grievances,' ” Letter to T. Miffin, in Papers of George Washington . Congress too did its part, enacting a series of acts “to reg- ulate Trade and Intercourse with the Indian Tribes, and to preserve Peace on the Frontiers.” See, e. g., Stat. ; Stat. ; Stat. (emphasis deleted). Those “Trade and Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting Intercourse Acts” underscored the Federal Government's new powers and worked to establish a policy of peace and trade with Indian tribes. For example, the Acts threatened criminal penalties on any U. S. citizen who entered Indian lands and there committed crimes against Indians. See, e. g., id., at ; see also Prucha, American Indian Policy – . Though opponents of those provisions contended that they were unnecessary because state laws and some treaties already provided for criminal punishment, proponents ex- plained that the provisions were needed for those who went “out of the limits of any of the States” and committed crimes that may not have been covered by a particular treaty. See Annals of Cong. (). Thus, as with the border gar- risons, these provisions were meant as “an answer to the charge that” the United States did not respect its treaties with Indian tribes, Prucha , while also securing “peace with the Indian tribes” on the frontier, Annals of Cong. . In that respect, they were much like the criminal pen- alties that Congress levied on those who went abroad and enlisted with England or France and thereby threatened the United States' peace with those nations. See Stat. . The Trade and Intercourse Acts further hammered out the Nation's diplomatic and territorial stance with respect to the Indian tribes. For example, refecting the Federal Govern- ment's powers over commerce, territories, and foreign af- fairs, the Acts forbade U. S. citizens from purchasing, survey- ing, or settling on Indian lands. E. g., id., at –. One of the Acts, enacted in , then drew a boundary line with Indian tribes and required citizens to have passports when As refected in the debates on this statute, a majority of Congress thought that “the power of the General Government to legislate in all the territory belonging to the Union, not within the limits of any particular State, cannot be doubted; if the Government cannot make laws to restrain persons from going out of the limits of any of the States, and commit murders and depredations, it would be in vain to expect any peace with the Indian tribes.” Annals of Cong. . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting entering Indian lands. Id., at . If an Indian came over the boundary line and committed a crime against a U. S. citizen, the Acts authorized the President to demand satis- faction from the tribe (while specifying that the Indian could be arrested “within the limits of any state”). See, e. g., § , id., at –. Then, to prevent the tribes from ally- ing themselves with European powers, Congress forbade peo- ple from conveying messages to Indian tribes from foreign states. Stat. . Congress also, of course, regulated trade with the Indian tribes. For example, the Acts continued the colonial prac- tice of requiring licenses to trade with Indians and threat- ened penalties on anyone who sold or purchased goods from Indians without a license. See, e. g., Stat. –. To facilitate trade, Congress also established a series of trading houses on the frontiers, appropriating federal funds to set up the houses and purchase goods from Indians. See, e. g., id., at , –; Ch. , Stat. . And, “to promote civili- zation” and secure the tribes' “friendship,” Congress appro- priated funds for the President to furnish gifts to the Indi- ans. See, e. g., § , Stat. . To be sure, these measures were not entirely successful, and the Federal Government's policy was not always one of peace. American frontiersmen continued to push into In- dian lands, and the military garrisons sometimes could not stem the tide. See Prucha –, . The Indians (often supported by the British) engaged in intermittent raids and attacks against American settlers, and the Federal Govern- ment and several confederated tribes fought a signifcant war in the Northwest Territories. Id., at –; J. Yoo, Cri- sis and Command – (); M. Fletcher & W. Singel, In- dian Children and the Federal-Tribal Trust Relationship, Neb. L. Rev. , – () (Fletcher & Singel). Addi- tionally, the Federal Government often played tribes against each other to obtain land concessions by treaty, leading many tribes (again goaded by the British) to take up arms against HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting the United States in the War of . See Cohen § .[], at –. In the aftermath of that confict, Presidents Mon- roe and John Quincy Adams generally pursued a policy of assimilation or removing Indians west with their consent. Prucha, American Indian Policy –. That policy then gave way to a more forceful policy of removing Indians west, particularly during the administration of President Andrew Jackson. Id., at –; Cohen § .[], at –; Prucha –, –. But, at least until the War of (and, in large part, in the years after it), Founding-era Presidents' primary goals in this area were to achieve peace with the Indians, sustain trade with them, and obtain Indian lands through treaties. See id., at –, , , . By establishing a peaceful and trade-oriented relationship with the Indians, the new coun- try further hoped to exclude British Canada and other Euro- pean powers that might seek alliances with the Indian tribes. See Cohen § .[], at –, n. ; Stat. . During that time, the Federal Government's relationship with the Indi- ans thus remained (as it did for nearly the frst hundred years of our Nation) “ `more an aspect of military and foreign policy' ” than simple domestic law. See United States v. Lara, U. S. , (). C Notably, neither President Washington nor the frst Con- gresses were particularly “concerned with the remnants of tribes that had been absorbed by the states and had come under their direction and control.” Prucha . The frst Trade and Intercourse Acts specifcally provided that “noth- ing in this act shall be construed to prevent any trade or intercourse with Indians living on lands surrounded by set- tlements of the citizens of the United States, and being within the jurisdiction of any of the individual states.” § , Stat. ; § , id., at . And the Constitution's Appor- tionment Clause provided that representatives would be ap- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting portioned by the population of each State, “excluding Indians not taxed”—implying that there were Indians who paid taxes and were incorporated into the bodies politic of the States. Art. I, § , cl. . The States accordingly enacted numerous laws to regulate Indians within their territorial boundaries, as well as those Indians' interactions with the States' citizens. See, e. g., D. Rosen, American Indians and State Law , () (Rosen). For example, New York passed laws forbidding its citizens from suing to enforce contracts with Indians who lived on Indian lands, and Virginia regulated the sale of land held by Indians. See Laws of the Colonial and State Gov- ernments, Relating to Indians and Indian Affairs, From to , pp. –, – (). Massachusetts author- ized its Governor to appoint guardians to oversee Indians and their property, while Ohio and Indiana forbade the sale of liquor to Indians. Id., at –, –. On the whole, States also generally applied both their civil and criminal laws to Indians, with many extending their criminal laws to all Indians anywhere in the State—includ- ing, sometimes, on Indian reservations within the State. See Rosen ; see also, e. g., Goodell v. Jackson ex dem. Smith, Johns. (N. Y. Ct. Corr. Errors ); State v. Doxtater, Wis. , N. W. () (collecting cases). To be sure, some of these laws may have conficted with valid federal treaties or statutes on point, and courts at the time often did not precisely demarcate the constitutional bound- aries between state and federal authority. Rosen –. The Constitution expressly denied certain powers to States, including the power to “enter into any Treaty,” but it is silent on States' relationship with Indians. See Art. I, § ; see also Letter from T. Jefferson to H. Knox (Aug. , ), in Papers of Thomas Jefferson (C. Cullen ed. ) (noting that States lack “a right to Treat with the Indians”). To be sure, in , this Court held that Georgia could not extend its laws over the territory held by the Cherokee Nation. See Worcester v. Georgia, Pet. . However, that opinion “yielded to closer analysis,” and Indian Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting But, when opponents of the Trade and Intercourse Acts' criminal provisions complained that state laws would take care of criminal offenses, the provisions' proponents did not reply that state laws were disabled on this point—they in- stead noted that citizens might go beyond the limits of States and commit crimes. See Annals of Cong. . And nota- bly, Congress' early statutes did not purport to regulate In- dians either on or off Indian lands—they instead regulated and penalized only U. S. citizens who were trading with Indi- ans or committing acts on Indian lands that threatened the peace with the tribes. Those statutory lines refected the early dynamic of federal-Indian relations, with Indian affairs counting as both a matter of quasi-foreign affairs and of state jurisdiction. For example, the early Trade and Intercourse Acts only de- manded satisfaction from Indian tribes if an Indian went onto a State's land and committed a crime. E. g., Stat. –. Under that regime, the Federal Government asserted no au- thority over the acts of Indians who lived on tribal lands— much less over Indians who lived off tribal lands and within a State's sole jurisdiction. That general jurisdictional line held until , when Con- gress frst enacted a statute to impose penalties on anyone who committed a crime against a U. S. citizen while on In- dian lands. See Stat. . But Justice McLean, riding circuit, held that statute unconstitutional in —at least as it applied to Indian lands located within the territorial limits of a State. See United States v. Bailey, F. Cas. (No. ,) (CC Tenn.). As Justice McLean explained, “[t]hat the federal government is one of limited powers, is a princi- ple so obvious as not to admit of controversy.” Id., at . Yet the Indian lands at issue were not located within a fed- eral territory, and there had not been “any cession of juris- reservations have since been treated as part of the State they are within. Oklahoma v. Castro-Huerta, U. S. –––, ––– () (internal quotation marks omitted). Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting diction by the state of Tennessee.” Id., at . Nor was the criminal statute in any way related to “commerce” with the Indian tribes. Ibid. Indeed, Justice McLean asked, if Congress could enact this statute, “why may not [C]ongress legislate on crimes for the states generally?” Id., at . He concluded that Congress “transcended their constitu- tional powers” in asserting a general criminal jurisdiction over tribal lands within the limits of a State. Ibid. And, given the limited nature of the Federal Government's au- thority, state laws thus played a signifcant role in regulating Indians within the territorial limits of States. See id., at . III The Constitution's text and the foregoing history point to a set of discrete, enumerated powers applicable to Indian tribes—just as in any other context. Although our cases have at times suggested a broader power with respect to Indians, there is no evidence for such a free-foating author- ity anywhere in the text or original understanding of the Constitution. To the contrary, all of the Government's early acts with respect to Indians are easily explicable under our normal understanding of the Constitution's enumerated pow- ers. For example, the Treaty Clause supported the Federal Government's treaties with Indians, and the Property Clause supported the gifts allocated to Indians. The powers to reg- ulate territories and foreign affairs supported the regulation of passports and penalties for criminal acts on Indian lands. The various war-related powers supported military cam- paigns against Indian tribes. And the Commerce Clause supported the regulation of trade with Indian tribes. This decision thus was consistent with one issued years later by this Court—which upheld the Trade and Intercourse Act's criminal provisions against a citizen of the United States, deemed not to be an Indian, who committed a crime on Indian lands within “a part of the terri- tory of the United States, and not within the limits of any particular State.” United States v. Rogers, How. , – (). Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting Moreover, the Founders deliberately chose to enumerate one power specifc to Indian tribes: the power to regulate “Commerce” with tribes. Because the Constitution contains one Indian-specifc power, there is simply no reason to think that there is some sort of free-foating, unlimited power over all things related to Indians. That is common sense: ex- pressio unius est exclusio alterius. And that is particularly true here, because the Founders adopted the “Indian Com- merce Clause” while rejecting an arguably broader authority over “Indian affairs.” See Adoptive Couple, U. S., at . Accordingly, here as elsewhere, the Federal Govern- ment can exercise only its constitutionally enumerated pow- ers. Because each of those powers contains its own inherent limits, none of them can support an additional unbounded power over all Indian-related matters. Indeed, the history of the plenary power doctrine in Indian law shows that, from its inception, it has been a power in search of a constitutional basis—and the majority opinion shows that this is still the case. A As the majority notes, some of the candidates that this Court has suggested as the source of the “plenary power” are the Treaty Clause, the Commerce Clause, and “principles inherent in the Constitution's structure.” See ante, at – ; Lara, U. S., at . But each of those powers has clear, inherent limits, and not one suggests any sort of unlim- ited power over Indian affairs—much less a power to regu- late U. S. citizens outside of Indian lands merely because those individuals happen to be Indians. I will discuss each in turn. First, and most obviously, the Treaty Clause confers only the power to “make Treaties”; the Supremacy Clause then makes those treaties the supreme law of the land. Art. II, § , cl. ; Art. VI. Even under our most expansive Treaty Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting Clause precedents, this power is still limited to actual treat- ies. See Bond v. United States, U. S. , – (); id., at – (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (the Treaty Power supports treaties only on matters of inter- national intercourse); Missouri v. Holland, U. S. , – (). It does not confer a free-foating power over matters that might involve a party to a treaty. Second, the Commerce Clause confers only the authority “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, § , cl. (emphasis added). “At the time the original Con- stitution was ratifed, `commerce' consisted of selling, buying, and bartering, as well as transporting for these purposes.” United States v. Lopez, U. S. , () (Thomas, J., concurring); see also S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the Eng- lish Language (th rev. ed. ) (reprint ) (defning commerce as “Intercourse; exchange of one thing for an- other; interchange of any thing; trade; traffck”). And even under our most expansive Commerce Clause precedents, the Clause permits Congress to regulate only “economic activ- ity” like producing materials that will be sold or exchanged as a matter of commerce. See Lopez, U. S., at ; Gon- zales v. Raich, U. S. , (). The majority, however, suggests that the Commerce Clause could have a broader application with respect to In- dian tribes than for commerce between States or with for- eign nations. See ante, at , . That makes little tex- Though the Court has only passingly discussed the Commerce Clause's application to commerce with foreign nations, see Baston v. United States, U. S. , () (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certio- rari), it has still described that application in terms of economic measures like embargoes, see Atlantic Cleaners & Dyers, Inc. v. United States, U. S. , (); Buttfeld v. Stranahan, U. S. , (). See also R. Barnett, The Original Meaning of the Commerce Clause, U. Chi. L. Rev. , –, () (collecting Founding-era sources that equate foreign commerce with trade). Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting tual sense. The Commerce Clause confers the power to regulate a single object—“Commerce”—that is then cabined by three prepositional phrases: “with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, § , cl. . Accordingly, one would naturally read the term “Commerce” as having the same meaning with respect to each type of “Commerce” the Clause proceeds to identify. See Gibbons v. Ogden, Wheat. , (). I would think that is how we would read, for example, the President's “ap- point[ment]” power with respect to “Ambassadors, . . . Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Offcers of the United States.” Art. II, § , cl. . There is no textual reason why the Commerce Clause would be different. Nor have the parties or the numerous amici presented any evi- dence that the Founders thought that the term “Commerce” in the Commerce Clause meant different things for Indian tribes than it did for commerce between States. See S. Pra- kash, Our Three Commerce Clauses and the Presumption of Intrasentence Uniformity, Ark. L. Rev. , – (). Rather, the evidence points in the opposite direction. See Adoptive Couple, U. S., at – (Thomas, J., concur- ring). When discussing “commerce” with Indian tribes, the Founders plainly meant buying and selling goods and trans- portation for that purpose. For example, President Wash- ington once informed Congress of the need for “new channels for the commerce of the Creeks,” because “their trade is lia- ble to be interrupted” by conficts with England. Statement to the Senate (Aug. , ), reprinted in American State Papers . Henry Knox similarly referred to the “profts of this commerce” with the Creeks in the context of a “trading house which has the monopoly of the trade of the Creeks.” Report (July , ), reprinted in id., at . And President Jefferson likewise discussed the “commerce [that] shall be carried on liberally” at “trading houses” with Indians. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting Statement to Congress (Jan. , ), reprinted in id., at . All of this makes sense, given that the Founders both wanted to facilitate trade with Indians and rejected a facially broader “Indian affairs” power in favor of a narrower power over “Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.” As noted above, that omission was not accidental; the Arti- cles of Confederation had contained that “Indian affairs” lan- guage, and that language was twice proposed (and rejected) at the Constitutional Convention. See Adoptive Couple, See also Statement of T. Jefferson to Congress (Jan. , ), re- printed in American State Papers – (Offcers may “have confer- ences with the natives, on the subject of commercial intercourse; get ad- mission among them for our traders, as others are admitted; [and] agree on convenient deposites, for an interchange of articles . . . ”); Statement of T. Jefferson to Congress (Jan. , ), reprinted in id., at (“I lay before you the accounts of our Indian trading houses . . . explaining the effects and the situation of that commerce . . . ”); Statement of S. Sibley et al. to Congress (Dec. , ), reprinted in id., at – (in the Northwest Territory, formerly “[t]here was trade and commercial inter- course; no agriculture,” but “[a]t present, the little commerce which re- mains is suffciently safe. It is agricultural protection which is wanted”); Letter from J. Mason to W. Eustis (Jan. , ), reprinted in id., at – (“[P]eltries (deer skins) are in most part received from the In- dians . . . . The market is on the continent of Europe. Since the obstruc- tions to our commerce in that quarter, peltries have not only experienced a depression in price . . . ”); Protest by J. Hendricks, J. Jackson, & J. Simms (June , ), reprinted in id., at – (“No citizen is to be permitted to sell, or furnish by gift, spirituous liquors to the Indians, or to have any commercial traffc with them”); see also Natelson –. Even one Founder who appears to have used the term more loosely (in the context of an opinion on the constitutionality of a national bank) focused only on trade and immigration restrictions. Letter from E. Randolph to G. Wash- ington (Feb. , ), in Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series , – (D. Twohig ed. ) (“The heads of [the commerce] power with respect to the Indian Tribes are . to prohibit the Indians from coming into, or trading within, the United States. . to admit them with or without restrictions. . to prohibit citizens of the United States from trading with them; or . to permit with or without restrictions”). HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting U. S., at . Then, as today, “affairs” was a broader term than “commerce,” with “affairs” more generally refer- ring to things to be done. Thus, whatever the precise con- To be sure, as respondents point out, the Constitution removed two limits on the Indian-affairs power found in the Articles of Confederation: that the Indians not be “members of any of the States,” and that no State's “legislative right . . . within its own limits be . . . infringed.” See Brief for Federal Parties –. But removing those two limits in the Indian context cannot simultaneously expand the very meaning of “commerce,” particularly because the Commerce Clause operates on two objects beyond Indian tribes. The Constitution's changes in this regard are thus best understood as narrowing the subject matter of Congress' power while omitting external constraints on that power. Compare F. Allen, A Complete English Dictionary () (Allen) (“something done,” or “the concerns and transactions of a nation”); S. Johnson, Dictionary of the English Language (th ed. ) (Johnson); N. Bailey, A Universal Etymological English Dictionary (th ed. ) (Bai- ley), with Allen (“the exchange of commodities, or the buying and selling [of] merchandize both at home and abroad; intercourse of any kind”); John- son (similar); Bailey (similar). Indeed, when the Founders referred to Indian “affairs,” they were often referring to diplomatic relations—going far afeld of their references to Indian “commerce.” E. g., G. Washington to Congress (Mar. , ), in American State Papers (referring to “the present crisis of affairs” with Indians and “managing the affairs of the Indian tribes” in a general sense, including inviting the Five Nations to the seat of the Federal Gov- ernment and giving presents to the tribes); Report from H. Knox (Nov. , ), in id., at (referring to “the subject of Indian Affairs” in the context of measures “to procure a peace with the Indians” and troops); Natelson – (detailing preconstitutional references to the Depart- ment of Indian Affairs). As noted above, Congress tasked the War De- partment with duties “relative to Indian affairs.” § , Stat. . And a Committee of the Continental Congress once remarked that “the principal objects” of that Congress' power of “managing affairs with” Indians had encompassed “making war and peace, purchasing certain tracts of their land, fxing the boundaries between them and our people, and preventing the latter [from] settling on lands left in possession of the former.” Journals of the Continental Congress ( ed.). Of course, it may be that the Constitution's other enumerated powers authorized many of those “objects.” But, whatever the precise bounds of an “Indian affairs” power, it was decidedly broader than a power over Indian “commerce.” Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting tours of a freestanding “Indian Affairs” Clause might have been, the Founders' specifc rejection of such a power shows that there is no basis to stretch the Commerce Clause beyond its normal limits. Third, the “structural principles” that the majority points to are only the foreign-affairs powers that the Constitution provides more generally. See Lara, U. S., at (citing Curtiss-Wright, U. S., at –). As detailed above, the Constitution plainly confers foreign-affairs powers on the Federal Government to regulate passports, offenses against the laws of nations, and citizens' acts abroad that threaten the Nation's peace. S. Prakash & M. Ramsey, The Execu- tive Power Over Foreign Affairs, Yale L. J. , – (). Those powers were brought to bear on Indian tribes, with whom the Federal Government maintained a government-to-government relationship. See, e. g., Cohen § .[], at –; Stat. (passports on Indian lands); The historical record thus provides scant support for the view, advo- cated by some scholars, that the term “commerce” meant (in the context of Indians) all interactions with Indians. E. g., G. Ablavsky, Beyond the Indian Commerce Clause, Yale L. J. , – () (Ablavsky). The main evidence for that view appears to be () a few, fairly isolated references to “commerce” outside the context of trade, usually in the con- text of sexual encounters, () the fact that one defnition of “commerce” was “intercourse” at the Founding, and () the fact that trade with Indians, at the Founding, had political signifcance. Ibid. But, as noted above, the Founders repeatedly used the term “commerce” when discussing trade with Indians. And just because that trade had political signifcance surely does not mean that all things of political signifcance were “commerce.” Nor is the defnition of “commerce” as “intercourse” instructive, because dictionaries from the era also defned “intercourse” as “commerce.” E. g., Johnson; Allen. Even some of these same scholars concede that the Founders overwhelmingly discussed “trade” with Indians—far more than either “intercourse” or “commerce” with them. See Ablavsky , n. . And, again, when the Founders did discuss “commerce” specifcally, they did so almost entirely in the context of trade. See supra, at –, and n. . Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting id., at (crimes on Indian lands); id., at (enlisting with foreign states). But that authority is a foreign, not domestic, affairs power. It comprehends external relations, like matters of war, peace, and diplomacy—not internal affairs like adoption pro- ceedings. The Court made that point explicit in Curtiss- Wright: The “power over external affairs [is] in origin and essential character different from that over internal affairs.” U. S., at ; see also Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, U. S. , , n. () (Jackson, J., concurring in judgment and opinion of Court) (recognizing this distinc- tion). For external affairs, the Constitution grants the Fed- eral Government a wider authority; but for internal affairs, the Constitution provides fewer, more discrete powers. See, e. g., Curtiss-Wright, U. S., at , ; Zivotofsky, U. S., at – (opinion of Thomas, J.). Again, all those limits dovetail with the historical practices of the Founding era. As discussed above, the Founding-era Government undertook a wide array of measures with re- spect to Indian tribes. But, apart from measures dealing with commerce, most (if not all) of the Federal Government's actions toward Indians either treated them as sovereign entities or regulated citizens on Indian lands who might threaten to breach treaties with Indians or otherwise disrupt the peace. For example, early treaties that dealt with The closest possible exception from this era was a provision in the Trade and Intercourse Act of (later enacted in the Act of ), which provided that, “in all trials about the right of property, in which Indians shall be party on one side and white persons on the other, the burden of proof shall rest upon the white person, in every case in which the Indian shall make out a presumption of title in himself from the fact of previous possession and ownership.” § , Stat. ; § , Stat. . But even that statute appears to be merely part of the general “design” of the Acts: to “protect the rights of Indians to their properties” “[b]ecause of recur- ring trespass upon and illegal occupancy of Indian territory” by frontier settlers. See Wilson v. Omaha Tribe, U. S. , (). Viewed as such, this unremarkable provision only furthered the foreign-affairs and Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting questions of peace and war plainly involved some sort of sovereign-to-sovereign relationship. See, e. g., Treaty with the Cherokees (), Stat. . And the early Trade and Intercourse Acts regulated only the criminal conduct of U. S. citizens on Indian lands. This congruence—between the government's actions and the Constitution's enumerated powers—likely refects the fact that those powers, collectively, responded to the most pressing concerns of the day: that Congress could not enforce its treaties with Indians, police the frontier, or regulate un- scrupulous traders—all of which caused violence and raised the specter of war with Indian tribes. As noted, when Con- gress tried to expand its domain in to regulate the crim- inal acts of Indians, one Justice of this Court found it to be a palpable violation of Congress' limited powers. See Bai- ley, F. Cas., at –. And, all the while, States contin- ued to regulate matters relating to Indians within their territorial limits. The normal federalist dynamic thus extended to the domain of Indian affairs: The Federal Gov- ernment was supreme with respect to its enumerated pow- ers, but States retained all residual police powers within their territorial borders. See id., at –; McCulloch, Wheat., at . And the Federal Government's enumerated powers were not unlimited, but confned to their plain mean- ing and limits. B So where did the idea of a “plenary power” over Indian affairs come from? As it turns out, little more than ipse dixit. The story begins with loose dicta from Cherokee Na- tion v. Georgia, Pet. (). In that case, the Cherokee Nation petitioned this Court for an injunction to prevent Georgia from enforcing state laws in Cherokee territory and commerce powers of the Federal Government by preventing non-Indians from stealing Indian lands, circumventing Congress' trade-licensing scheme, and disrupting the peace with Indian tribes. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting from seizing Cherokee lands. Id., at . The Tribe as- serted that Article III both allowed the suit and gave this Court original jurisdiction because the suit was one by a “foreign Stat[e]” against the State of Georgia. § , cls. –. Writing for the Court, Chief Justice Marshall admitted that the Tribe's argument was “imposing”: The Tribe was “a state, as a distinct political society,” but it was “not a state of the union.” Pet., at . Nonetheless, the Court re- fused to hear the case. As Marshall reasoned, Indian tribes were not “foreign state[s] in the sense of the constitution,” as shown in part by the Commerce Clause's delineation of States, foreign nations, and Indian tribes. Ibid. Rather, Marshall reasoned that the Indian tribes occupied a unique status, which he characterized as that of “domestic depend- ent nations” whose “relation to the United States resembles that of a ward to his guardian.” Id., at . Other than this opinion, I have been unable to locate any evidence that the Founders thought of the Federal Govern- ment as having a generalized guardianship-type relationship with the Indian tribes—much less one conferring any con- gressional power over Indian affairs. To the contrary, such a status seems diffcult to square with the relationship be- tween the Federal Government and tribes, which at times involved warfare, not trust. See, e. g., Fletcher & Singel –; F. Hutchins, Tribes and the American Constitution (). And, if such a general relationship existed, there would seem to be little need for the Federal Govern- ment to have ratifed specifc treaties with tribes calling for federal protection. E. g., Treaty with the Kaskaskia (), Stat. ; Treaty with the Creeks (), id., at . At bot- In dissent, Justice Thompson reasoned that the reference to “Indian tribes” was meant only to ensure that the Federal Government could regu- late commerce with tribes, which were often subunits of Indian nations. Accordingly, he concluded that Indian nations were “ `foreign states' ” under Article III. Cherokee Nation, Pet., at . Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting tom, Cherokee Nation's loose dicta cannot support a broader power over Indian affairs. Nevertheless, Cherokee Nation's suggestion was picked up decades later in United States v. Kagama, U. S. ()—the frst case to actually apply a broader, unenumer- ated power over Indian affairs. In Kagama, the Court con- sidered the Major Crimes Act of , which, similar to the Act held unconstitutional by Justice McLean while ri- ding circuit, regulated crimes on Indian lands committed by Indians; the Major Crimes Act differed from the Act only in that it extended to crimes committed against other Indians. See § , Stat. . Similarly to Justice McLean's Bailey opinion, the Court frst rejected the idea that the Commerce Clause could support the Act—reasoning that “it would be a very strained construction of th[e] clause, that a system of criminal laws for Indians . . . was authorized by the grant of power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.” Kagama, U. S., at –. But the Court determined that the Major Crimes Act was constitutional nevertheless. As the Court frst noted, the Act was “confned to the acts of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed within the limits of the reservation.” Id., at . The Court then cited several cases arising from congressional regulations of Indian lands located within federal territories, noting that Congress had previously punished offenses committed on such lands. See id., at (citing United States v. Rogers, How. , (); Murphy v. Ramsey, U. S. , (); American Ins. Co. v. Bales of Cotton, Pet. , ()). Next, the Court reasoned that the Act “does not interfere with the process of the State courts within the reservation, nor with the operation of State laws upon white people found there.” U. S., at . Instead, the Act's “effect[s are] confned to the acts of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed within the limits of the reservation.” Ibid. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting That sort of language seems to view Indian lands as akin to quasi-federal lands or perhaps “external” to the Nation's normal affairs. But nothing the Court cited actually sup- ported such a view. For example, the fact that the Federal Government could regulate Indians on federal territories does not justify such regulations for Indians within a State's limits. Nor does the fact that tribes were “external” at the Founding mean that they remained “external” in . Nor does the fact that Congress could regulate citizens who went onto Indian lands, see Rogers, How., at , mean that Congress automatically has the power to regulate Indians on those lands. But the Court then subtly shifted its approach. Drawing on Cherokee Nation, the Court next asserted that “Indian tribes are the wards of the nation.” Kagama, U. S., at (emphasis in original). Because of “their very weakness and helplessness,” it reasoned, “so largely due to the course of dealing of the Federal Government with them and the treaties in which it has been promised, there arises the duty of protection, and with it the power.” Id., at . This power “over th[e] remnants” of the Indian tribes, the Court stated, “must exist in [the federal] government, because it never has existed anywhere else,” “because it has never been denied, and because it alone can enforce its laws on all the tribes.” Id., at –. These pronouncements, however, were pure ipse dixit. The Court pointed to nothing in the text of the Constitution or its original understanding to support them. Nor did the Court give any other real support for those conclusions; in- stead, it cited three cases, all of which held only that States were restricted in certain ways from governing Indians on Indian lands. Id., at (citing Worcester v. Georgia, Pet. As discussed more below, Congress declared in that “hereafter no Indian nation or tribe within the territory of the United States shall be acknowledged or recognized as an independent nation, tribe, or power with whom the United States may contract by treaty.” Stat. . Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting (); Fellows v. Blacksmith, How. () (only the Federal Government, not private parties, can enforce re- moval treaties); The Kansas Indians, Wall. () (States cannot tax Indian lands)). It does not follow from those cases that the Federal Government has any additional authority with regard to Indians—much less a sweeping, un- bounded authority over all matters relating to Indians. Cf. Worcester, Pet., at (suggesting that tribes had long been left to regulate their internal affairs). At each step, Kagama thus lacked any constitutional basis. Nonetheless, in the years after Kagama, this Court started referring to a “plenary power” or “plenary author- ity” that Congress possessed over Indian tribes, as well as a trust relationship with the Indians. See, e. g., Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, U. S. , (); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, U. S. , (); Winton v. Amos, U. S. , (). And, in the decades since, this Court has increasingly gestured to such a plenary power, usually in the context of regulating a tribal government or tribal lands, while conspicuously failing to ground the power in any constitutional text and cautioning that the power is not abso- lute. See, e. g., ante, at (noting this problem); United States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, U. S. , () (opinion of Vinson, C. J.); Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, U. S. , – (). The majority's opinion today continues in that vein—only confrming its lack of any constitutional basis. Like so many cases before it, the majority's opinion lurches from one con- stitutional hook to another, not quite hanging the idea of a plenary power on any of them, while insisting that the ple- nary power is not absolute. See ante, at –. While I empathize with the majority regarding the confusion that Kagama and its progeny have engendered, I cannot refex- ively reaffrm a power that remains in search of a constitu- tional basis. And, while the majority points to a few actual constitutional provisions, like the Commerce and Treaty Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting Clauses, those provisions cannot bear the weight that our cases have placed upon them. At bottom, Kagama simply departed from the text and original meaning of the Constitution, which confers only the enumerated powers discussed above. Those powers are not boundless and did not operate differently with respect to In- dian tribes at the Founding; instead, they conferred all the authority that the new Federal Government needed at the time to deal with Indian tribes. When dealing with Indian affairs, as with any other affairs, we should always evaluate whether a law can be justifed by the Constitution's enumer- ated powers, rather than pointing to amorphous powers with no textual or historical basis. IV Properly understood, the Constitution's enumerated pow- ers cannot support ICWA. Not one of those powers, as orig- inally understood, comes anywhere close to including the child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens living within the sole jurisdiction of States. Moreover, ICWA has no consti- tutional basis even under Kagama and later precedents. While those cases have extended the Federal Government's Indian-related powers beyond the original understanding of the Constitution, this Court has never extended them far enough to support ICWA. Rather, virtually all of this Court's modern Indian-law precedents—upholding laws that regulate tribal lands, tribal governments, and commerce with tribes—can be understood through a core conceptual framework that at least arguably corresponds to Founding- era practices. To extend those cases to uphold ICWA thus would require ignoring the context of those precedents, treating their loose “plenary power” language as talismanic, and transforming that power into the truly unbounded, abso- lute power that they disclaim. The basic premise that the powers of the Federal Government are limited and defned should counsel against taking that step. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting A ICWA lacks any foothold in the Constitution's original meaning. Most obviously, ICWA has no parallel from the Founding era; it regulates the child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens in state courts—not on Indian lands—merely because the children involved happen to be Indians. No law from that time even came close to asserting a general police power over citizens who happened to be Indians—by, for ex- ample, regulating the acts of Indians who were also citizens and who lived within the sole jurisdiction of States (and not on Indian lands). If nothing else, the dearth of Founding- era laws even remotely similar to ICWA should give us pause. Nor can ICWA fnd any support in the Constitution's enu- merated powers as originally understood. I take those pow- ers in turn: First, the Property Clause cannot support ICWA because ICWA is not based on the disposition of federal property and is not limited to federal lands; in fact, the Fed- eral Government owns very little Indian land. See Statisti- cal Record of Native North Americans (M. Reddy ed. ); S. Prakash, Against Tribal Fungibility, Cornell L. Rev. , – (). Second, the Treaty Clause cannot support ICWA because no one has identifed a treaty that governs child custody proceedings—much less a treaty with each of the feder- ally recognized tribes to which ICWA applies. U. S. C. §§ (), (); Fed. Reg. (). Nor could they; Congress declared an end to treaty-making with Indian tribes in , and it appears that well over half of the tribes lack any treaty with the Federal Government. See Stat. ; Brief for Tribal Defendants –; see also generally Vols. – C. Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties (d ed. , ). And, in part because one Congress can never bind a later Congress, the Federal Government retains the power to abrogate treaties and has done so for at least some Indian treaties. E. g., Lone Wolf, U. S., at ; ac- Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting cord, La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, U. S. , (); W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England () (Blackstone). Whatever number of treaties remain in force, they cannot justify ICWA. Third, the Commerce Clause cannot support ICWA. As originally understood, the Clause confers a power only over buying and selling, not family law and child custody disputes. Even under our more modern, expansive precedents, the Clause is still limited to only “economic activity” and cannot support the regulation of core domestic matters like family or criminal laws. See Lopez, U. S., at ; United States v. Morrison, U. S. , – (); National Federa- tion of Independent Business v. Sebelius, U. S. , () (opinion of Roberts, C. J.); id., at (Scalia, J., dis- senting). And even Kagama itself rejected the Commerce Clause as a basis for any sort of expansive power over Indian affairs. U. S., at –. Therefore, nothing about that Clause supports a law, like ICWA, governing child cus- tody disputes in state courts. Fourth, the Federal Government's foreign-affairs powers cannot support ICWA. For today's purposes, I will assume that some tribes still enjoy the same sort of pre-existing sov- ereignty and autonomy as tribes at the Founding, thereby establishing the sort of quasi-foreign, government-to- government relationship that appears to have defned those powers at the Founding. Even so, the foreign-affairs pow- ers can operate only externally, in the context of lands under the purview of another sovereign (like Indian tribal lands) Respondents insist that Lopez and Morrison did not hold that family law is insulated from federal law. But that misses the point. Lopez and Morrison held that the Commerce Clause cannot regulate a matter like family law, and they did not consider whether some other constitutional power might do so. Cf. Hillman v. Maretta, U. S. , –, () (fnding pre-emption of a state statute regarding benefciaries and a change in marital status under a federal statute regulating the life insur- ance of federal employees). Here, no such independent power is to be found. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting or in the context of a government-to-government relation- ship (such as matters of diplomacy or peace). See Curtiss- Wright, U. S., at , . But regulating child custody proceedings of citizens within a State is the paradigmatic domestic situation; the Federal Government surely could not apply its foreign-affairs powers to the domestic family-law or criminal matters of any other citizens merely because they happened to have citizenship or ancestral connections with another nation. Apart from the single provision that allows tribal governments jurisdiction over proceedings for Indians on tribal lands, see § (a), ICWA is completely untethered from any external aspect of our Nation that could somehow implicate these powers. That should be the end of the analysis. Again, as the ma- jority notes, our Federal Government has only the powers that the Constitution enumerates. See ante, at –; McCulloch, Wheat., at . Not one of those enumerated powers justifes ICWA. Therefore, it has no basis whatso- ever in our constitutional system. B Even taking our “plenary power” precedents as given (as the majority seems to do for purposes of these cases), noth- ing in those precedents supports ICWA. To be sure, this Indeed, ICWA stands in sharp contrast to statutes regarding interna- tional adoptions, in accordance with the Hague Convention. Those stat- utes generally regulate only adoptions by a foreign parent of a child resid- ing in the United States, or vice versa. E. g., Stat. ; U. S. C. §§ , . In other words, there is a cross-border component; the statutes do not regulate adoption proceedings merely because the child's parents are, for example, dual Mexican-American citizens or dual Irish- American citizens. For ICWA to be comparable to those statutes, it could regulate only the adoption of children who reside on an Indian reservation by parents who live within the sole jurisdiction of a State, or vice versa. While I take no position on whether such a more limited law would be constitutional, that stark difference only underscores ICWA's lack of any external focus. Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting Court has repeatedly used loose language concerning a “ple- nary power” and “trust relationship” with Indians, and that language has been taken by some to displace the normal con- stitutional rules. See ante, at –. But, even taken to their new limits, the Court's precedents have upheld only a variety of laws that either regulate commerce with Indians or deal with Indian tribes and their lands. Despite citing a veritable avalanche of precedents, respondents have failed to identify a single case where this Court upheld a federal stat- ute comparable to ICWA. As noted above, Kagama was careful to note that the Major Crimes Act at issue was “confned to the acts of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed within the limits of the reservation.” U. S., at . In that vein, the opinion cited cases arising from congressional regulations of Indian lands located within Federal Territo- ries. See id., at (citing Rogers, How., at ; citing Murphy, U. S., at , and Bales of Cotton, Pet., at ). In other words, it is possible that Kagama viewed Congress as having the power to regulate crimes by Indians on Indian lands because those lands remained in a sense “external” to the Nation's normal affairs and akin to quasi- federal lands. Again, that would be a non sequitur. Nevertheless, at a high level, it is possible to see how Kagama was rooted in the same foreign-affairs and territorial powers that author- ized much of the early Trade and Intercourse Acts (and which Congress may have relied upon when passing the Act). See Cohen §.[], at , and nn. , (linking Kagama with Curtiss-Wright, U. S., at ); United States v. Wheeler, U. S. , () (describing Indian tribes as possessing a pre-existing sovereignty, apart from the United States). And, viewed in that light, it would make sense to limit Kagama to that conceptual root, treating regulations of tribal lands and tribal governments as “exter- nal” to the normal affairs of the Nation. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting Indeed, such a line explains almost all of the myriad cases that respondents have cataloged as showing an unqualifed power over Indian affairs. See, e. g., Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Community, U. S. , () (tribal govern- ment's sovereign immunity); Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, U. S. , , () (federal approval of mining leases on tribal lands); Stephens, U. S., at – (fed- eral court in Indian territory). Many, for example, dealt with federal laws that purported to diminish a tribe's terri- tory or jurisdiction. South Dakota v. Yankton Sioux Tribe, U. S. (); Negonsott v. Samuels, U. S. (); Washington v. Confederated Bands and Tribes of Yakima Nation, U. S. (); United States v. Hel- lard, U. S. (). Others dealt with state taxes on Indian lands. See, e. g., Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, U. S. (); Bryan v. Itasca County, U. S. (); Board of County Comm'rs v. Seber, U. S. (); Choate v. Trapp, U. S. (). Others still have permitted the Federal Government to diminish a tribe's self-government. See Santa Clara Pueblo, U. S., at –. And yet others, in Kagama's direct lineage, dealt with crimes on Indian lands. See, e. g., Lara, U. S., at ; see also, e. g., United States v. Cooley, U. S. –––, ––– (); Wheeler, U. S., at –. In doing so, some of those criminal law cases reasoned that the Double Jeopardy Clause permits separate punishments by tribal governments and the Federal Government because of the tribe's separate sovereignty, underscoring Kagama's conceptual root. See, e. g., Cooley, U. S., at –––; Lara, U. S., at . And, along the way, at least some of these cases clarifed, like Kagama, that they dealt not with “Indi- ans who have left or never inhabited reservations set aside for their exclusive use or who do not possess the usual accou- trements of tribal self-government,” but only with Indians residing on Indian lands. McClanahan v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, U. S. , – (); accord, Fisher v. Dis- Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting trict Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., U. S. , () (per curiam) (dealing with “an adoption pro- ceeding in which all parties are members of the Tribe and residents of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation”); United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., U. S. , () (regulations of “contracts for the sale of timber on land of the Klamath Indian Reservation”). In case after case, the law at issue purported to reach only tribal govern- ments or tribal lands, no more. To be sure, applying Kagama's conceptual framework ulti- mately reveals a catch- of sorts: If Congress regulates tribal governments as a matter of external affairs, then such regulation seems to undercut the very tribal sovereignty that serves as the basis for that congressional power. See Lara, U. S., at – (Thomas, J., concurring in judg- ment). But that appears to be a hallmark of Kagama and its progeny, not a peculiarity. As Chief Justice Marshall once stated, Indians are neither wholly foreign nor wholly domes- tic, but are instead “domestic dependent nations,” akin to “ `[t]ributary' ” states. Worcester, Pet., at ; Cherokee Nation, Pet., at –. It may be that this contradiction is simply baked into our Indian jurisprudence. And, in any event, recognizing the proper conceptual root for these prec- edents makes the most sense of them as a textual and origi- nal matter—and it is surely preferable to continuing along this meandering and ill-defned path. Yet, even confning Kagama's conceptual error to its roots, the majority seems concerned that other precedents suggest that the Commerce Clause has broader application with re- spect to Indian affairs. But many of this Court's prece- dents, even when referring to some broader power, dealt with laws that governed trade with Indians, no more. See, e. g., United States v. Holliday, Wall. () (selling liquor to Indians); Perrin v. United States, U. S. () (same); United States v. Sandoval, U. S. () (same); Dick v. United States, U. S. () (selling Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting liquor on Indian lands). Thus, even if those cases suggest a broader power, they must be taken in context. And the cases that the majority cites for its proposition turn out to be the ones that do so in the most obvious dicta. For exam- ple, Cotton Petroleum considered state taxes on Indian lands; it had no need to opine on the Commerce Clause be- yond explaining that Indian tribes are not States. See U. S., at . In a similar vein, Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, U. S. (), held only that the Commerce Clause does not confer any authority to abrogate state sover- eign immunity; any language about the breadth of the “In- dian Commerce Clause” was wholly unnecessary to that re- sult. Id., at . Shorn of their dicta, all of these precedents refect only the longstanding—and enumerated—authority to regulate commerce with Indian tribes. Other precedents cited by the majority that do not ft into Kagama's conceptual framework are easily explicable as sup- ported by other, specifc powers of Congress. For example, Lone Wolf held that Congress can enact laws that violate treaties with Indians; that holding was justifed by Congress' general power to abrogate an existing law or treaty. U. S., at –; accord, La Abra Silver Mining Co., U. S., at ; Blackstone . Another treaty-based case, Delaware Tribal Business Comm. v. Weeks, U. S. (), involved the disposition of funds paid pursuant to a treaty. It therefore makes sense as a matter of both the Property and Treaty Clauses. And yet another treaty- based case involved a promise by the United States to estab- lish a discrete trust fund with $, for a Tribe, with an- nual interest to be paid to the Tribe. See Seminole Nation v. United States, U. S. , – (). Though that case spoke of historic trust obligations, it arose from an ex- plicit promise to create a trust with $,. There is Still other cases fall somewhere in the middle of these powers, but they are still easily explicable by normal constitutional rules. For exam- ple, United States v. Creek Nation, U. S. (), held that the HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Thomas, J., dissenting little reason to view such cases as expanding Congress' powers. Accordingly, the context of all these cases points to lines that are at least plausibly rooted in Founding-era practices and the text of the Constitution. See Brown v. Davenport, U. S. –––, ––– – ––– () (judicial opinions must be taken in context, not read like statutes). Congress can reg- ulate commerce with Indian tribes; it may be able to regulate tribal governments and lands in Kagama's vein; and it can make treaties, dispose of federal funds, and establish dis- crete trusts. ICWA does not remotely resemble those practices. It does not regulate commerce, tribal governments, or tribal lands. Nor is it based on treaties, federal funds, or any dis- crete trust. By regulating family-law matters of citizens living within the sole jurisdiction of States merely because they happen to be Indians, ICWA stands clearly outside the framework of our Indian-law precedents. To uphold ICWA therefore would drastically expand the context in which we United States had to provide “just compensation” for the taking of Indian lands—which seems equally a measure of tribal lands as it does standard Takings Clause jurisprudence. Id., at . And Sunderland v. United States, U. S. (), involved conditions imposed on the purchase of land by an Indian with funds held in trust by the Federal Government; the funds had been acquired from the previous sale of Indian lands that were themselves likely held in trust. Id., at –; see Cohen § .[], at –. Sunderland thus seems equally a measure of Indian lands and conditions on spending. Nor should we be unduly tripped up by broad language like “plenary” powers. Prior to our decision in United States v. Lopez, U. S. , the Court for decades had stated that “the Commerce Clause is a grant of plenary authority” in the realm of interstate commerce. See Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Assn., Inc., U. S. , (); Maryland v. Wirtz, U. S. , (); United States v. Darby, U. S. , (). Yet we then clarifed that the Com- merce Clause's application to interstate commerce, rather than being un- bounded, was limited only to economic activities. See Lopez, U. S., at . Again, it is critical to read the Court's precedents in their context. Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Thomas, J., dissenting have previously upheld Indian-related laws in Kagama's framework. But, even if that is so, the majority appears to ask “why Congress's power is limited to these categories.” Ante, at , n. . The majority nearly answers itself: because our Constitution is one of enumerated powers, and limiting Con- gress' authority to those “buckets” would bring our jurispru- dence closer to the powers enumerated by the text and origi- nal meaning of the Constitution. See ante, at , –, , n. . While I share the majority's frustration with peti- tioners' limited engagement with the Court's precedents, I would recognize the contexts of those cases and limit the so- called plenary power to those contexts. Such limits would at least start us on the road back to the Constitution's origi- nal meaning in the area of Indian law. * * * The Constitution confers enumerated powers on the Fed- eral Government. Not one of them supports ICWA. Nor does precedent. To the contrary, this Court has never up- held a federal statute that regulates the noncommercial ac- tivities of a U. S. citizen residing on lands under the sole jurisdiction of States merely because he happens to be an Indian. But that is exactly what ICWA does: It regulates child custody proceedings, brought in state courts, for those who need never have set foot on Indian lands. It is not about tribal lands or tribal governments, commerce, treaties, or federal property. It therefore fails equally under the Court's precedents as it fails under the plain text and origi- nal meaning of the Constitution. If there is one saving grace to today's decision, it is that the majority holds only that Texas has failed to demonstrate that ICWA is unconstitutional. See ante, at –, . It declines to disturb the Fifth Circuit's conclusion that ICWA is consistent with Article I, but without deciding that ICWA is, in fact, consistent with Article I. But, given Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Alito, J., dissenting ICWA's patent intrusion into the normal domain of state gov- ernment and clear departure from the Federal Government's enumerated powers, I would hold that Congress lacked any authority to enact ICWA. I respectfully dissent. Justice Alito, dissenting. The frst line in the Court's opinion identifes what is most important about these cases: they are “about children who are among the most vulnerable.” Ante, at . But after that opening nod, the Court loses sight of this overriding concern and decides one question after another in a way that disserves the rights and interests of these children and their parents, as well as our Constitution's division of federal and state authority. Decisions about child custody, foster care, and adoption are core state functions. The paramount concern in these cases has long been the “best interests” of the children involved. See, e. g., T. Zeller, Family Law and Practice §§ ., . (); id., § .. But in many cases, provisions of the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) compel actions that confict with this fundamental state policy, subordinating what family-court judges—and often biological parents—deter- mine to be in the best interest of a child to what Congress believed is in the best interest of a tribe. The cases involved in this litigation illustrate the distress- ing consequences. To its credit, the Court acknowledges what happened to these children, but its decision does noth- ing to prevent the repetition of similar events. Take A. L. M. His adoption by a loving non-Indian couple, with whom he had lived for over a year and had developed a strong emotional bond, was initially blocked even though it was supported by both of his biological parents, his grand- mother, and the testimony of both his court-appointed guard- ian and a psychological expert. Because a Tribe objected, he would have been sent to an Indian couple that he did not Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Alito, J., dissenting know in another State had the non-Indian couple not sought and obtained an emergency judicial order. Baby O.'s story is similar. A non-Indian couple welcomed Baby O. into their home when she was three days old and cared for her for more than two years while seeking to adopt her. The couple ensured that Baby O.'s serious medical needs were met and maintained regular visits with Baby O.'s biological mother so that Baby O. could have a continuing relationship with her biological family. Even though both biological parents supported the couple's adoption of Baby O., a Tribe objected and sought to send Baby O. to live in foster care on a reservation in another State. Only after the couple joined this lawsuit did the Tribe agree to a settle- ment that would permit the couple to fnalize the adoption. After nearly two years moving between foster-care place- ments, Child P., whose maternal grandmother is a member of an Indian Tribe, was placed with a non-Indian couple who provided her a stable home. After the placement, the Tribe, which had told the state court years earlier that Child P. was not eligible for tribal membership, reversed its position with- out explanation and enrolled her as a member. The Tribe then objected to the couple's efforts to adopt Child P., even though her court-appointed guardian believed that the adop- tion was in Child P.'s best interest. “To comply with ICWA,” the state court removed Child P. from the couple's custody and placed her with her maternal grandmother, “who had lost her foster license due to a criminal conviction.” Ante, at (majority opinion). Does the Constitution give Congress the authority to bring about such results? I would hold that it does not. Whatever authority Congress possesses in the area of Indian affairs, it does not have the power to sacrifce the best inter- ests of vulnerable children to promote the interests of tribes in maintaining membership. Nor does Congress have the power to force state judges to disserve the best interests of children or the power to delegate to tribes the authority to HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Alito, J., dissenting force those judges to abide by the tribes' priorities regarding adoption and foster-care placement. I The Court makes a valiant effort to bring coherence to what has been said in past cases about Congress's power in this area, but its attempt falls short. At the end of a lengthy discussion, the majority distills only this nugget: Congress's power over Indian affairs is “plenary” but not “absolute.” Ante, at . The majority in today's cases did not coin this formulation; it merely repeats what earlier cases have said. See, e. g., Delaware Tribal Business Comm. v. Weeks, U. S. , () (quoting United States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, U. S. , () (plurality opinion)). But the formulation's pedigree cannot make up for its vacuity. The term “plenary” is defned in one dictionary after another as “absolute.” See, e. g., New Oxford American Dictionary (d ed. ); Webster's Third New International Dictionary (); The Ran- dom House Dictionary of the English Language (d ed. ). If we accept these defnitions, what the Court says is that absolute ≠ absolute and plenary ≠ plenary, violating one of the most basic laws of logic. Surely we can do better than that. We need not map the outer bounds of Congress's Indian affairs authority to hold that the challenged provisions of ICWA lie outside it. We need only acknowledge that even so-called plenary powers cannot override foundational con- stitutional constraints. By attempting to control state judi- cial proceedings in a feld long-recognized to be the virtually exclusive province of the States, ICWA violates the funda- mental structure of our constitutional order. In reaching this conclusion, I do not question the proposi- tion that Congress has broad power to regulate Indian af- fairs. We have “consistently described” Congress's “powers Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Alito, J., dissenting to legislate in respect to Indian tribes” as “ `plenary and ex- clusive.' ” United States v. Lara, U. S. , () (collecting cases). Refecting this understanding, we have sanctioned a wide range of enactments that bear on Indian tribes and their members, sometimes (regrettably) without tracing the source of Congress's authority to a particular enumerated power. See, e. g., Santa Clara Pueblo v. Marti- nez, U. S. , – () (modifying tribal govern- ments' powers of self-government); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, U. S. , – () (transferring tribal land). Nor do I dispute the notion that Congress has undertaken re- sponsibilities that have been roughly analogized to those of a trustee. In exercising its constitutionally-granted powers, the Federal Government, “following `a humane and self im- posed policy,' ” has committed itself to “ `moral obligations of the highest responsibility and trust' ” to the Indian people. United States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, U. S. , (). Nevertheless, we have repeatedly cautioned that Con- gress's Indian affairs power is not unbounded. And while we have articulated few limits, we have acknowledged what should be one obvious constraint: Congress's authority to regulate Indian affairs is limited by other “pertinent consti- tutional restrictions” that circumscribe the legislative power. United States v. Creek Nation, U. S. , – (); see also New York v. United States, U. S. , () (“Congress exercises its conferred powers subject to the lim- itations contained in the Constitution”). The state of affairs on many Indian reservations, however, does not speak well of the way in which these duties have been discharged by this putative trustee. See, e. g., U. S. Commission on Civil Rights, Broken Promises: Continuing Federal Funding Shortfall for Native Americans –, –, –, – (Dec. ) (discussing poor perform- ance of students in tribal schools, substandard housing and physical infra- structure on reservations, and high rates of unemployment among Indians living on reservations). Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Alito, J., dissenting For example, in Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, U. S. (), we held that Congress's power under the In- dian Commerce Clause was limited by “the background prin- ciple of state sovereign immunity embodied in the Eleventh Amendment.” Id., at . We rejected the Tribe's argu- ment that Congress's Indian affairs power could exceed other constitutional restrictions when “necessary” to “ `protect the tribes' ” from state interference. Id., at . Foundational constitutional principles like state sovereign immunity, we observed, are “not so ephemeral as to dissipate when the subject of the suit is [in] an area, like the regulation of Indian commerce, that is under the exclusive control of the Federal Government.” Id., at . Even when we have sustained legislation, we have cautioned against congressional over- reach. See Lara, U. S., at –. We have suggested that a law may exceed Congress's power to regulate Indian affairs if it has “an unusual legislative objective,” brings about “radical changes in tribal status,” or “interfere[s] with the power or authority of any State.” Ibid. We have rarely had occasion to enforce these limits, in part because the enactments before us have often fallen comfort- ably within the historical bounds of Congress's enumerated powers. See ante, at – (Thomas, J., dissenting). But that does not mean that we should shy away from en- forcement when presented with a statute that exceeds what the Constitution allows. II Congress's power in the area of Indian affairs cannot ex- ceed the limits imposed by the “system of dual sovereignty between the States and the Federal Government” estab- lished by the Constitution. Gregory v. Ashcroft, U. S. , (). “The powers delegated . . . to the federal government are few and defned,” while “[t]hose which . . . remain in the State governments are numerous and indef- nite.” The Federalist No. , p. (C. Rossiter ed. ) (J. Madison). The powers retained by the States constitute Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Alito, J., dissenting “ `a residuary and inviolable sovereignty,' ” secure against federal intrusion. Printz v. United States, U. S. , () (quoting The Federalist No. , at (J. Madison)). This structural principle, reinforced in the Tenth Amend- ment, “confrms that the power of the Federal Government is subject to limits that may, in a given instance, reserve power to the States.” New York, U. S., at . The corollary is also true: in some circumstances, the powers re- served to the States inform the scope of Congress's power. Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., U. S. –––, ––– (). This includes in the area of Indian affairs. Dick v. United States, U. S. , () (Congress's primacy over Indian tribes and States' “full and complete jurisdiction over all persons and things within [their] limits” are “fundamental principles . . . of equal dignity, and neither must be so enforced as to nullify or substantially impair the other”). While we have never comprehensively enumerated the States' reserved powers, we have long recognized that gov- ernance of family relations—including marriage relation- ships and child custody—is among them. It is not merely that these matters “have traditionally been governed by state law” or that the responsibility over them “remains pri- marily with the States,” ante, at (majority opinion), but that the feld of domestic relations “has long been regarded as a virtually exclusive province of the States,” Sosna v. Iowa, U. S. , () (emphasis added). “The whole subject of the domestic relations of husband and wife, parent and child, belongs to the laws of the States and not to the laws of the United States.” In re Burrus, U. S. , – (). “Cases decided by this Court over a period of more than a century bear witness to this historical fact.” Sosna, U. S., at . See, e. g., United States v. Windsor, U. S. , (); McCarty v. McCarty, U. S. , (); Simms v. Simms, U. S. , (); Pennoyer v. Neff, U. S. , , – (). Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Alito, J., dissenting This does not mean that federal law may never touch on family matters. As the majority observes, ante, at , we have held that federal legislation that regulates certain “eco- nomic aspects of domestic relations” can preempt conficting state law. Ridgway v. Ridgway, U. S. , – () (providing an order of precedence for benefciaries of a serv- ice member's life insurance policy); see, e. g., Hillman v. Maretta, U. S. , – () (allocating federal death benefts); McCarty, U. S., at , – (allocat- ing military retirement pay). But we have never held that Congress under any of its enumerated powers may regulate the very nature of those relations or dictate their creation, dissolution, or modifcation. Nor could we and remain faith- ful to our founding. “No one denies that the States, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, possessed full power over” ordinary family relations; and “the Constitution dele- gated no authority to the Government of the United States” in this area. Haddock v. Haddock, U. S. , (). It is a “most important aspect of our federalism” that “the domestic relations of husband and wife”—and parent and child—are “matters reserved to the States and do not belong to the United States.” Williams v. North Carolina, U. S. , () (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). As part of that reserved power, state courts have resolved child custody matters arising among state citizens since the earliest days of the Nation. See, e. g., Nickols v. Giles, Root , – (Conn. Super. Ct. ) (declining to re- move daughter from mother's care); Wright v. Wright, Mass. , – () (awarding custody of child to mother following divorce); Commonwealth v. Nutt, Browne , (Pa. Ct. Common Pleas ) (assigning custody of child to her sister). Then, as now, state courts' overriding concern was the best interests of the children. See, e. g., Commonwealth v. Addicks, Binn. , (Pa. ) (court's “anxiety is principally directed” to the child's wel- Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Alito, J., dissenting fare); In re Waldron, Johns. Cas. , (N. Y. Sup. Ct. ) (court is “principally to be directed” by “the beneft and welfare” of the child). By the mid-th century, States had begun enacting statutory adoption schemes, enforceable through state courts, “to provide for the welfare of depend- ent children,” starting with Massachusetts in . S. Presser, The Historical Background of the American Law of Adoption, J. Fam. L. , , () (Presser); Mass. Acts ch. . Over the next years, other States followed suit. Presser –, and nn. , . As the cases before us attest, this historic tradition of state over- sight of child custody and welfare through state judicial pro- ceedings continues to the present day. The ICWA provisions challenged here do not simply run up against this traditional state authority, they run rough- shod over it when the State seeks to protect one of its young citizens who also happens to be a member of an Indian tribe or who is the biological child of a member and eligible for tribal membership, herself. U. S. C. § (). In those circumstances, ICWA requires a State to abandon the carefully-considered judicial procedures and standards it has established to provide for a child's welfare and instead apply a scheme devised by Congress that focuses not solely on the best interest of the child, but also on “the stability and secu- rity of Indian tribes.” § . That scheme requires States to invite tribal authorities with no existing relationship to a child to intervene in judicial custody proceedings, §§ (c), (a), . It requires States to replace their reasoned standards for termination of parental rights and placement in foster care with standards that favor the interests of an Indian custodian over those of the child. §§(e), (f). It forces state courts to give Indian couples (even those of dif- ferent tribes) priority in adoption and foster-care place- ments, even over a non-Indian couple who would better serve a child's emotional and other needs. §§ (a), (b). And it requires state judges to subordinate the State's typical Page Proof Pending Publication HAALAND v. BRACKEEN Alito, J., dissenting custodial considerations to a tribe's alternative preference. § (c). It is worth underscoring that ICWA's directives apply even when the child is not a member of a tribe and has never been involved in tribal life, and even when a child's biological parents object. As seen in the cases before us, the sad con- sequence is that ICWA's provisions may delay or prevent a child's adoption by a family ready to provide her a perma- nent home. ICWA's mandates do not simply touch on family matters. They override States' authority to determine—and imple- ment through their courts—the child custody and welfare policies they deem most appropriate for their citizens. And in doing so, the mandates harm vulnerable children and their parents. In my view, the Constitution cannot countenance this result. The guarantee of dual sovereignty embodied in the constitutional structure “is not so ephemeral as to dissi- pate” simply because Congress invoked a so-called plenary power. Seminole Tribe of Fla., U. S., at . The chal- lenged ICWA provisions effectively “nullify” a State's au- thority to conduct state child custody proceedings in accord- ance with its own preferred family relations policies, a prerogative that States have exercised for centuries. Dick, U. S., at . Congress's Indian affairs power, broad as it is, does not extend that far. Because ICWA's provisions comprise a comprehensive child custody scheme relevant only to state court proceedings, I generally do not believe they can be severed without engaging in “quintessentially legislative work.” Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of Northern New Eng., U. S. , (). An exception is § (a), which gives Indian tribes exclu- sive jurisdiction over child custody proceedings involving Indian children living within a reservation; that section is not implicated by my analysis. See also Fisher v. District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., U. S. , , – () (per curiam) (recognizing exclusive tribal court jurisdiction over adoption proceedings, where all parties are mem- bers of a tribe living on a reservation). Page Proof Pending Publication Cite as: U. S. () Alito, J., dissenting The indicators we previously identifed also signal that ICWA exceeds Congress's constitutional bounds. See Lara, U. S., at –. First, the law has “an unusual legisla- tive objective.” Id., at . ICWA's attempt to control local judicial proceedings in a core feld of state concern de- parts signifcantly from other Indian affairs legislation that we have sanctioned—laws that typically regulated actual commerce, related to tribal lands and governance, or fulflled treaty obligations. See ante, at – (Thomas, J., dis- senting). Second, the law brings about “radical changes in tribal status,” effectively granting tribes veto power over state judgments regarding the welfare of resident Indian children. Lara, U. S., at . And third, the law “in- terfere[s] with the power [and] authority of [every] State” in the conduct of state judicial proceedings and determination of child custody arrangements. Ibid. That is, in fact, its express design. See, e. g., §§ (c), , . These in- dicators confrm that ICWA surpasses even a generous un- derstanding of Congress's Indian affairs authority. * * * I am sympathetic to the challenges that tribes face in maintaining membership and preserving their cultures. And I do not question the idea that the best interests of children may in some circumstances take into account a de- sire to enable children to maintain a connection with the cul- ture of their ancestors. The Constitution provides Congress with many means for promoting such interests. But the Constitution does not permit Congress to displace long- exercised state authority over child custody proceedings to advance those interests at the expense of vulnerable children and their families. Because I would hold that Congress lacked authority to enact the challenged ICWA provisions, I respectfully dissent. Page Proof Pending Publication Page Proof Pending Publication Reporter’s Note The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant punctuation. The following additional edits were made: p. , line , “Updike” is inserted before “Toler” p. , line , “Updike” is inserted before “Toler”